[Hello, I will be visiting Tuscany for 2 weeks in April and I want to buy a nice leather jacket (slim fit, kind of) for men. Is there a store you can recommend in Tuscany? If possible not touristy overpriced, but just good fine handcraft locals would know. Thanks, It could be difficult. Normally it's Turkish or Chinese, or at the best "Italian design". It would be still nice looking., Try San Lorenzo market in Florence. Failing that all sorts of small shops selling leather everything in the back streets in Florence - just expect small shops sometimes with a workshop attached, Lots of small local shops selling leather stuff..in Florence as above,but also in smaller cities(like Lucca,for example)., Some of it is local and good quality,some is not...be careful!] [Hello, I want to travel from Lake Como, Italy, to Le Bourg-d'Oisans, France. The most direct route is via car. Has anyone had any experience hiring a car in Italy and dropping it off in France? Any insight is appreciated., You can do it but they will charge you a lot for it, different companies have different fees, but expect to pay a minimum of €200 extra and that is probably a conservative estimate., Usually a €500 surcharge for renting a car in one country and dropping it off in another.  It’s better to wait to rent in France  for your itinerary, unless you’re feeling flush., Not only will you pay a hefty relocation fee for a one-way international rental, if that is permitted, you will have to drop of the car in the nearest city that has a franchise office related to the provider. That may be Grenoble, at best, and then you face the problem of getting to your final destination., From which city will you depart Europe? If you will return to Italy for your departure you may as well keep the car. There is a fantastic itinerary to the south of France from Grenoble and then along the Côte d'Azur back to Italy., Como - Grenoble is about 5 hrs by car and costs 145 EUR (104 EUR motorway/tunnel toll plus 41 EUR fuel).Como - Grenoble is about 6 hrs by train, fares start at 50 EUR/pax, Or drive from Como via Montgenevre to Bourg d'Oisans and backtrack to Turin for car drop off after your Bourg d'Oisans stay., It's not a sensible idea unless you own the car., ....and unless you are a group of people,rather than travelling on your own ;-), Even if you are 4,it will probably cost you more overall than taking public transport.But of course there are some benefits of where you can stop and what you can see on the way.] [Hey everyone!Me and some friends (7 or 8 girls aged 17-18), are planning on traveling by interrail this summer, and we are considering stopping by Italy for some days (we have all seen the movie "call me by your name" and fallen in love with northern italy:). We dont have a lot of money so we want to travel as cheap as possible. The only time possible for us to travel is by the end of July, even though we know this typically is the most touristy season. These are the reasons why we want to maybe travel to some lesser known places, that are cheaper and with less tourists. Some of us love going to museums, art and history, while others would be happy just relaxing by a beach/pool, so the perfect place to go would be a small city/village by the beach, preferably with some museums about local history/nice architecture/local markets, or at least easy transportation to other interesting villages/cities. I have googled a bit, and found that the region "Le Marche" is supposed to be nice, but I think it would be hard to get there by public transportation, and we are not planning on renting a car. Anyways, we would love to hear if anyone has experience or suggestions to any of this, either if is villages/cities to visit or nice airbnbs/hostels/b&amp;bs or how to travel on a budget or any other tips. Thanks in advance!!, Italy is not a good place to be there on a budget during the high season., Michel, (1) You can't save money by going to beaches, these are prime destinations., (2) An Interrail ticket is not your cheapest option unless you know that you will do a lot of rail travel in a single day. Buy city-to-city tickets well in advance to get the cheapest fares, or use buses:, But check where the bus stations are in each place, as these are often outside the city centres, unlike most railway stations, and so you may need to allow additional time to get to and from them., (3) Avoid central Italy, including Tuscany, the Amalfi Coast, and Cinque Terre. Look instead at Piemonte, Aosta, perhaps Friuli-Venezia Giulia. But regardless of the expense, be sure to visit Venice. You can save money by finding accommodation on the mainland instead of on the islands., Almost all seaside villages of Le Marche have excellent public transport. Most of them have railway stations, others (like the Riviera del Conero) can be reached by frequent buses).The northern half of the coastline (called Grill of Teutons), namely the area from Cattolica-Gabbice up to Senigallia is very busy at the beginning of July already, south of Ancona, the high season starts a bit later.Historic places to visit in the hinterland:San MarinoUrbinoFrasassi CavesIesiFabrianoLoretoMacerataAscoli PicenoTeramo.The Museo archeologico nazionale delle Marche is a must for people interested in the History of the Marche., According to the Wiki article in English, "Call Me By Your Name" was largely shot in and around Crema, a small city in Lombardia, about an hour's train ride from Milan. So if you want to see some of the actual locations used in the movie, Milan is probably your point of entry and a potential base. Bergamo, where the main characters spend a short holiday, is also easily and cheaply accessible from Milan., If that's the direction you want to go, try to find a flight into Linate rather than Malpensa to save a little time and money. No idea where the nearest beach to Milan is--not close. But there will certainly be cheap, hostel accommodation in Milan. Not sure that will be true of many of the smaller towns in northern Italy., Wherever you decide to go, it would be useful to know a proposed daily budget (per person) and overall length of stay., I agree with C-F-C #4 that a budget would be helpful - your profile says you are in Norway which is known as one of Europe's most expensive countries so maybe your budget might stretch a bit further than some people's!!, Le Marche is nice and has some good beaches. The countryside is also well worth visiting and Ascoli Piceno makes a good base for exploring the hills on the eastern side of the Apennines by bus  - see http://www.startspa.it/index.php/site/pagina/servizi/servizi-extraurbani, And much as Interrail appeals it may actually be cheaper to buy point to point tickets unless you are doing very long journeys on each day you use your Interrail ticket. Local trains in Italy (they have train numbers beginning R or RV) have fixed prices with no need to book in advance, but other faster long-distance trains can be booked at a discount up to 3 months in advance on the trenitalia website., Hey guys, and thanks so much for the help!Since I wrote the post, i have found out that we wont actually have a lot of time in italy, maximum 2 days,  because it is just a stop on a bigger interrail trip. (that is also why we use interrail tickets instead of local train tickets). Since we are not going to stay there for long, the most important thing is that it is a cheap place to stay, because we wont have time to do a lot of things in the place anyways. Anyways, we may know someone that lives near lake Garda that we can live with, so maybe we will just stay there (I dont think that is far away from Crema either, which someone mentioned was the place Call me by your name was filmed!!!)However, I have fallen in love with Italy, and I will return someday with more time to visit some of the places you suggested. But thank you guys so much for all your help!!, And you have two days. Good luck with that., Your rail pass will limit you to slower trains unless you want to pay supplemental fees for the faster ones., You run the risk that the places you want to see may not be worth the time it takes to get to them--and from them. If your destinations are far apart. And if you'll have comparably limited time for them., Any idea where you'll be stopping immediately before and after northern Italy?] [&lt;&lt;However, I have fallen in love with Italy,&gt;&gt;, Yet you've never been there? Sounds like a mail-order bride syndrome., Yes, maybe Italy is Catfishing her....!If Italy asks you to send cash or provocative pics, <em>don't!</em>, It looks like my plan of spending a day in Milan with 7-8 teenage Norwegian girls isn't going to work out..., "we may know someone that lives near lake Garda that we can live with, so maybe we will just stay there (I dont think that is far away from Crema either", "Near Lake Garda" can be between 2 and 6 hrs OW by public transport from Crema. All depends on the exact location of this misterious "near Lake Garda".But how can you know that you will have just 2 days in Italy, if you don't know the journey times from your previous location to "Nearlakegarda" and from there to your next destination?, And the less time you have, the less you can afford to waste your money by staying at a place far away from anything worth to visit. As in this case, you would see nothing of Italy, it would be better to skip this country completely., Hahah, you might have a point. However, I actually have been to Italy and I liked it very much. Anyways, thank you everyone for all the help, but we have already figured out where we are staying., Before you carve anything in stone, you will almost certainly want to look at train travel times--on the slow regional trains your pass allows you to use., Otherwise this could easily turn into "Our Holiday Spent on European Trains, with Occasional Pauses.", "have already figured out where we are staying", But why did you then ask yesterday about Le Marche (and a lot of people wasted l a lot of time by trying to give you good answers)?, I'm sorry if I offended anyone?? As I said in the first post, we were only considering stopping by Italy, and I was just asking if anyone had any tips on the brainstorming part of planning our trip. However, a lot of your tips have been very helpful and I will definately take them into account., I think it's widely considered a given that people change their plans--sometimes quite quickly., That's going to hold true for your group, too. I strongly doubt the actual traveling party will include 7-8 people. Beware of the dynamic where the people who insist on having the most input about the shape of the journey suddenly decide to drop out (often at the last minute). You'll need flexibility, which your rail passes will give you to some degree, and refundable accommodations, probably., Are you sure you don't want to reveal the whole proposed itinerary, perhaps in a new thread? That is, once you have it a little more firmly nailed down? Some people who responded to this thread, the bottom line of which is, "oh, never mind," might be reluctant to volunteer more advice. Others less so., Bear in mind: the regulars here are a bunch of old fogies who have collectively made every travel mistake in the book. There's an argument to be made that some errors of judgment can/will only be learned by personal experience. But I think the overall purpose of a travel forum is to learn from other people's mistakes (and also from their moments of grace and good luck)., Speaking of good luck: good luck. Especially if you're the person "in charge" of organizing this enterprise.Personally, I'd rather wrangle cats., Research those (slow) train travel times!!!!] [Hi, We (family of 5, kids aged 16,14 &amp; 10) trying to book Thello tickets for Paris-Venice or Rome for last week of July &amp; 1st Aug rtn travelling around Italy &amp; Slovenia in between.  Some conflicting info about Thello booking opening dates on a few websites (i.e. booking opens 4 months/ 6 months/ when?).  Can anyone tell me about best options for booking to secure e2e passage from 'North England' (thanks to The Saj for that one)?, Regards, Jacques, You can book Thello fares up to 180 days ahead of travel., What do you need to know about travel from northern England?, As above Thello is 180 days in advance. How do you want to travel from the North of England what does "secure E2E" even mean. You either fly to Paris, or take the train via London for the Eurostar, or boat to the Netherlands and take train from there., End to end, I think., For London - Slovenia, you may check the overnight trainsCologne - Innsbruck (plus connecting train to Verona)Cologne - Rosenheim (plus connecting trains to Villach - Ljubljana)Cologne - Linz (plus connecting trains to Selzthal Graz - Maribor)with feeder train from London dp 15.04tooas well as the ES/TVG connection London dp 11.31 - Munich ar 21.52, plus the connecting overnight trains Munich dp 23.20 - Ljubljana ar 5.57 -  Postojna ar 7.31or Munich dp 23.20 - Udine - Gorizia ar 7.17., There was a post here 2 or 3 weeks ago about difficulty booking Thellio tickets when the explanation was that the dates of train operation were not yet definite due to planned track maintenance in France which might mean the train would not operate on certain days. I cannot comment on whether that situation lasts into the summer holiday period., #5 that was just end of March when you cannot book tickets you already can for April &amp; May.] [I'm finalizing my itinerary for the first two weeks of May. I'm going with my Mom who has never been to Europe (I plan on returning again by myself sometime). I'm confident I've chosen the right areas, and I'm comfortable with 4 cities in 2 weeks. I already have the airline tickets into Naples and out of Venice (long story - that was the best way to do it). We really want some good variety in what we see. I'm more interested in history and architecture than art, but will still go to a few of the major art museums., My biggest question is should I move a night at Salerno to Venice? I plan on going to Venice first thing in the morning to give more time there, and I just can't see spending 3 nights there with my Mom, especially since I've been to several tourist-packed cities in Europe already., Day 1: Arrive in Naples at 1pm, travel to Salerno (stay in Salerno)Day 2: Amalfi coast (stay in Salerno)Day 3: Paestum (stay in Salerno)Day 4: Capri or more Amalfi coast (stay in Salerno)Day 5: Pompeii en route to Rome (stay in Rome)Day 6: Rome (stay in Rome)Day 7: Rome (stay in Rome)Day 8: Rome (stay in Rome)Day 9: Travel to Florence (stay in Florence)Day 10: Florence (stay in Florence)Day 11: Siena daytrip (stay in Florence)Day 12: Florence or daytrip (stay in Florence)Day 13: Travel to Venice in the morning (stay in Venice)Day 14: Venice (stay in Venice)Day 15: Early flight out of Venice, Generally trip doable although pretty rushed esp if first time in Italy.Salerno not  a very interesting place, I'd look at somewhere  else to stay on the Amalfi coast.Not sure about day 5 you intend to get from Salerno  to Pompeii to Rome in one day including visiting Pompeii, maybe overnite in Naples better idea so you can spend reasonable time in Pompeii., When I had a quick look at your itinerary, I asked myself if you were confusing Salerno and Sorrento which is on the Amalfi Peninsula and on the way to Pompeï and Rome., I don't think you should feel compelled at all to spend more time in Venice.  Just because others do, doesn't mean you need to too.  Go with your own instincts., If it were me, I would allow some time for Naples itself- one of my favourite spots in Italy., I agree on Salerno...I wouldn't stay all the way out there,for what you want to do.Have you already booked accommodation there?, It's a good base for Paestum but not really a great place to stay...if you want a city,Naples is far more interesting., And if you don't want a city,stay in Sorrento,or a smaller place like Positano., It's doable but pretty rushed. Typical advice on this forum is three main centres in two weeks. You propose four, which means you're going to have to make sacrifices. I take your point about variety, but 1½ days in Venice is nowhere near enough IMO, and I imagine you'll be spending all your time in the same tourist hotpots as everyone else. Venice is unique, and rewards more time being spent on it. So to answer your question, yes, personally I would deduct a day from somewhere else. Day 5 gives you limited time at Pompei. I think there's luggage storage at the station., Then,on the question of"moving a night"...depends a lot on you,your interests,and what you want to do in each place., I think it's all doable as it is.More time everywhere would be good,but it's not possible ;-), Personally,based on MY interests,I'd move the night to Venice., I didn't mean to sound too negative in post # 6, by the way. There is plenty of variety in this itinerary. :-), I'd move a day to Venice, since you've got less than 2 full days there (that is, days when you both wake up and go to bed there)., Even two full days doesn't guarantee you'll avoid the crowds. You'll have to plan on going to areas where the tourists aren't (northern Cannaregio, the far end of Castello) to avoid the impression that Venice is just another "tourist-packed" city--which it is. But only in the areas the tourists pack. Except: those are the areas that, as a tourist, you'll want to see, too (primarily the attractions in Piazza San Marco)., Also note: because virtually every tourist in town walks the exact same route between the train station and Piazza San Marco, that route is also "tourist-packed.", Sorry, but when you give yourself only enough time in a city to do and see what every other tourist does and sees, it's no wonder your impression is of a "tourist-packed" city. At your proposed pace, Rome and Florence are also likely to leave that impression. Among other impressions, hopefully.] [Hi Jimmy,  Were it my trip using  the trains,  I would use Sorrento as a base rather than Salerno, primarily because the “Circumvesuviano” commuter train line conveniently  links Naples to Sorrento and Pompeii in less than  an hour and you can take boats out of Sorrento to both the Amalfi Coast and the island of Capri. The month of  May can see the buses to Amalfi/Positano  jammed with visitors on the coastal road which can see major traffic jams— that  makes the boats from Sorrento a good back-up plan.      I also agree that Salerno is not the most pleasant of cities to use as a base- it’s an industrial port city and I found it lacking when I stayed there. Try Naples as a base for Paestum and Pompeii and Sorrento as a base for Capri and the Amalfi Coast.Don’t miss the National Archaeology Museum in Naples where Pompeii’s treasures are stored., I'll put in half a good word for Salerno and say it is pleasant enough but on your itinerary the only justification for going there is for ease of reaching Paestum. Everything else can be visited more easily from Naples or Sorrento and a half day at the Archaeological Museum in Naples where so many artefacts rescued from Pompei are on display would be worth considering. The half hourly commuter train from Naples to Sorrento calls at both Ercolano and Pompei on the way. There are a few "all stations" trains on the line from Naples through Salerno to Paestum if it is high on your priorities though Paestum station is 15 - 20 minutes walk from the site whereas buses from Salerno stop almost by it., Those early am flights out of Venice are a bitch, so why don't you turn the trip around and start in Venice and end in Naples?, As noted, if you rush around like this with only a couple or three days in a place, every place is going to seem tourist-packed because you've only got time to hit the highlights. that everyone is hitting.  I certainly wouldn't cut back on time in Venice because you've seen crowds before - there is absolutely nothing comparable to Venice in the entire world, whether you have to see it through crowds or not., Did you really pick Salerno or was that a typo?, Venice is drowning under the weight of tourism.   So if someone has only a small interest in visiting, that's okay.  Also, just because someone has only a day to visit, it doesn't necessarily hold that they are only going to see the route between the station and P. San Marco.  They could just head left or right from the station instead.   Venice is small and while I personally could spend weeks there (if I could get over the feeling that I'm adding to their woes), it's also entirely possible to get a good taste in a day or two., ... if you consciously avoid the things that made it famous.Or, stay long enough to have your cake and eat it, too., I agree with Helen. While one can benefit by a more  in- depth stay in about any of the world’s great cities —that doesn’t mean one can’t enjoy a day or two in the great cities of the world- whether it be London or Paris or Venice.      If all you have is one or two days—or even a few hours — in one of the world’s great cities— to see that city— even for a brief time — is preferable to never seeing it at all. Some travelers only have the time a flight layover allows for several hours in a great city and even the few hours they might have to catch a few sights in the central city is preferable to staying at the airport and not seeing anything  at all., Do not make the perfect the enemy of the good., It's not the case for many people who post on here,particularly concerning Venice., The ones who like the place are the ones who had extended stays.The ones who don't,are those who did day trips or very short stays., Over many years that has been generally true.Arrive,spend a few hours in the middle of the day walking the most touristy streets,stop for an overpriced pizza at some tourist restaurant along the trail,get to St Mark's,have a 5 euro coffee,turn around and do it all over again ;-), Not surprisingly,these people's impression of Venice is rarely positive!, Personally,I disagree that the typical experience outlined above is "better than nothing"., If these visitors had done "nothing",they might have planned a trip with enough time to actually enjoy Venice., As it is,they have"done Venice".And they don't like it..., Venice is already a divisive city--some folks adore it, some folks hate it. But from what I hear, the people who spend the least time there have the most negative impressions: "So crowded! So pricey! What mediocre food!", None of which needs to be true. But the less time you spend in a place, the less time you're likely to spend researching it. So it might take a day or two--or longer--to figure that out., I see it as less of a choice between the perfect and the good than between the pretty good and the potentially not very good at all. "Perfect" doesn't enter into it., Also, the distinctions between going into a city to avoid sitting in an airport for hours and actively choosing to include a city in one's itinerary are obvious., I disagree, quite often the longer you spend somewhere the more you dislike it. From what I observe everyone who's obsessed with Venice seems intent on convincing everyone else to also like Venice. It doesn't work that way, I'm not a fan and IMO a couple of days anywhere, not just Venice, can give you a very good insight into a place.] [A couple of days can give you some insight,I agree., A couple of hours..in the most touristy part of the city,at the worst time of day..will rarely give you a positive insight., It is just about the worst place to be rushing to and from the airport when you have a few hours,as was suggested above.Many tourists.all entering and walking the same way,all in a hurry., Anyway the Op has 1.5 days in Venice,which could become 2.5., Either way its not a lot of time,but of the two..I'd go with the 2.5., But equally they could spend more time anywhere on that itinerary and enjoy it..why not?, It would be interesting to hear from people who have had this experience.And conversely, from people who disliked or were uncomfortable in a place for the first couple days but then came to love it., Au contraire! I would strongly encourage people who aren't keenly interested to avoid Venice entirely. That would be true for any destination. But if you're going to bother to put it on your itinerary, you might as well build in some time to get off the Great Tourist Hamster Wheel. It's tricker to do in Venice than most other places., Because if there's one thing Venice really needs, it's tourists who aren't overly interested in being there., Assuming OP is a first-time visitor, I'll bet I can predict with great accuracy the sights on the agenda for Rome and Florence. As could most of us. Wouldn't it be nice to have time to also go to equally worthwhile sights where everyone else <em>doesn't</em> go?, Me too (genuinely - not meant as a challenge to the person who made the suggestion). Should we start a separate thread?, As a tourist it has never happened to me.If I really don't like a place,I go somewhere else ;-), Maybe if someone chooses the wrong package resort and they are stuck there? But even then,you can probably still do day trips to somewhere else...or even move somewhere else and write off what you already paid  for., The first (and only) time I went to Tunisia, decades ago, I definitely had the experience of disliking it more and more as time went on. Going someplace else wasn't really an option. I kept thinking that the next place we went to would be better....but no, it was usually worse. There was a fresh hell awaiting in every new venue: sandstorms, garbage heaps full of dead feral cats, dung beetles, scorpions, openly hostile anti-American sentiment, thieves, a rental Jeepy-thing with no upholstery and no windshield, gastrointestinal disorders of the worst kind, attack camels, sexual predators..........it was so incredibly awful it became comic. I won 1st prize for my trip report in a Washington Post essay contest about vacations from hell., Calcutta comes to mind. Once you've seen the highlights, unwelcome aspects such as noise and intrusion become gradually magnified until you decide you've had enough and move on. Lots of places are similar, once the initial novelty and shine has worn off you realise the place doesn't have a lot more to offer. Boredom can easily become dislike., The highlights of any place are highlights for a reason so prediction is easy and there is no good reason NOT to visit the highlights. Other "worthwhile" places in Venice are TBH dependant on the degree of your obsession and subjectivity. Many with a normal passing interest will see one canal with crumbling buildings as much of a muchness with any other. You may for example have a restaurant that you will recommend until you die but the truth is OP can load up on carbs and cheap prosecco in any of the other places he visits in Italy.OP has done research and the mere fact that he is asking the question, 2 nights or 3, he's answered it himself., Well that's stating the obvious isn't it. If you really don't like a place then obviously it has happened to you. Dislike is rarely instantaneous as most places offer something. If they don't then it's down to poor choice and lack of research., Disliking multiple places in the same country makes it more difficult,I agree., But even there its not impossible to go somewhere else.I suppose you just have faith that the next city or town will be better than the last one!, If its Venice region,its easy.Even if its a stopover in Venice airport,its easy..you can go to 10 interesting towns or cities within an hour or less from the airport.They are all smaller,less touristed,cheaper and require less time for a decent investigation than Venice does., Actually, I was thinking more of Rome and Florence when i wrote that. And OP's apparent dislike of "tourist-packed cities in Europe.", The point is, they aren't. It's just the top-3 sights and the areas surrounding them that are.] [Hilariously funny tale from St.Cirq of eternal tribulations in Tunisia.  Thanks for that-, Award-winning tribulations!, OP asked for some advice on itinerary 2 days ago, since then we seem to have gone way off topic - pity OP having to trawl through all this to find anything relevant to their initial post :-(   - I think initial few posts covered hos questions; can't add anymore I'll leave here now, Seems pretty focused on the biggest question--with a few digressions..No consensus, but that's to be expected.An airing of opinions.] [Has anyone taken a ferry from Bari to Durres/Albania? Companies to avoid/use?...] [Are train tickets in Italy cheaper, if you book further ahead online, like e.g. “Sparschiene” in Germany and Austria?  Also is this the official website: https://www.seat61.com/Italy-trains.htm#How%20to%20buy%20train%20tickets%20for%20Italy, Thank you all!..., Italiarail and Trenitalia are the two different companies., Trenitalia has far more services,but depends where you want to go...if there are services with both,you can compare prices and choose the best., Then,as above (#4).....there are some discounted tickets for faster trains.Usually easier to find the further in advance you book., Regional/local trains don't have discount,the price is always the same., Yep both intercity and Freccia trains have discounts if booked earlier, italo trains are more fluid with discounts you can still get a discount on the day if the train is quiet. But any discounted trains are non flexible. Regional trains have no discount or seat reservation, be aware though if you book a regional train ticket online you are tied to that train even more so if you have it as part of a longer journey. Trenitalia also do a duo ticket so cheaper when two people travelling together. Italiarail is a booking agent and you will pay more for the honour of using them. The two companies are Trenitalia and Italo both of which are now pretty easy to use on line you can either print etickets or download an app., Think you are confusing Italiarail with Italo. Italiarail is a booking agent.] [Bear in mind that booking in advance will save you money but you sacrifice flexibility. Such tickets generally do not permit any change to travel plans nor are they refundable., Yes,you're right...I meant Italo!] [Hi all, My husband and I are travelling to the Dolomites 6th - 11th April this year. We have booked a hire car from Venice airport and will drive, and have the car for the duration of the trip., We've tried to research the best place to stay, but are having trouble deciding. I think I'd prefer to be in a larger town for ease although we intend to drive out most days to explore and do some walking. I will be 4 months pregnant by then (hence wanting to be in a town rather than a secluded location), so we won't be doing any serious hikes but would like to do some walks., I'm leaning towards Bolzano but if anyone has any recommendations for other places I would really appreciate it., How easy would it be to explore the region from Bolzano, or say Merano or Cortina d'Ampezzo for example, with a car? Will there still be snow at that time of year making any driving more difficult?, Many thanks in advance, all info and opinions welcomeJo, Snow at that time of the year is unlikely to effect the roads, unless there is freak snow storm, how much hiking you can do is another thing. Bolzano probably is a good base, but make sure you find a hotel with parking. Merano is better reached by train from Bolzano, you can also visit Trento, and some other great places like Bressanone and Brunico, infact no need for a car, not sure what Cortina offers at that time of the year apart from skiing., Bolzano is not that close from the Dolomites proper and Merano is even farther., Cortina would be very nice for a base but so would Bressanone/Brixen, Brunico/Bruneckand above all San Candido/Innichen, a very nice small town close to the best scenery, and with all the main services., If you are planning <em>walks</em>, many of them could be still with snow early in April, apart from the lower, easier valley tracks.  Renting a car of course gives you freedom, but that area has one of the best public transport services in Europe., Details here: https://www.suedtirol.info/en/experience/winter/winter-hiking/winter-hike-to-the-fanes-pasture_activity_12022] [Ciao!, I recently posted about our upcoming trip. We will be in Rome first and will head to Florence. We are thinking about driving from Rome through Tuscany on the S24. Has anyone done this and felt safe? Alternately, we could rent a car from Florence and venture from there. We fly home from Florence., Thanks!, Alicia, Why would it not be"safe"? What are you worried about? ;-), BTW Florence is IN Tuscany., You can't drive"from Florence to Tuscany"., Where in Tuscany do you want to go? (Apart from Florence)., Is this just to get from Rome to Florence? If so, why do you need a car? Or are you planning on stopping off at other places? Lucapal gave some relevant advice here: https://www.lonelyplanet.com/thorntree/permalink/post/23247088, If you mean the S2, yes I often recommend it. It is variously S2, SS2 and once in Tuscany SR2 but it is the old Via Cassia, the main road from Rome to Florence via Viterbo and Siena from the pre-autostrada days. The southern end can be busy as you go through the outer suburbs of Rome, likewise the last few kilometres between the autostrada A1 and the centre of Florence. In Siena it becomes a ring road round the city, well signed but sometimes quite busy and slow. However it is recommended - and you can easily take several days for this journey visiting almost anywhere within 20 km or so either side - eg the Etruscan sites around Tuscania, Viterbo, Bolsena, Orvieto, Radicofani, Montepulciano, Pienza ....... just to name a few. Perhpas look for a few nights in an agriturismo. If you're concerned about city centre driving - not without reason! - pick up your car at Fiumicino airport and drop off at Florence airport in Peretola, Safe. Meaning... okay for first time Italian drivers. :), Montepulciano, Orvieto and Siena., Ugh, yes, the S2. Thank you. This was very helpful. I will definitely take a look at this option. :), Thanks. All reachable by public transport. Car no use on arrival in each location., Thank you, Thomas. I appreciate the assistance. I just needed a little more info from experienced travellers.] [Just to add that the 3 places you mention in #6 is only the start of the options, there's just so much more to this area. I really am trying to persuade you to spend as long as possible on this part of the route - you won't be disappointed., Of course, understood. :-) I just wanted to be clear whether there are any hard-to-reach destinations on your itinerary. You won't be using a car while you're in any of these towns, that's all, so as well as the challenges of driving and parking you may find that car hire isn't a good use of money., As above...both Mike and Thomas are right., There is a lot more on this route,and having a car can make sense..BUT...if your time is limited,and you only want to visit those 3 places?, They are all accessible easily by public transport,and a car is not useful within them., There aren't any roads in Italy that aren't populated by Italian drivers, who are notoriously self-assured, some would say aggressive. There aren't any roads designated for first-time drivers. So if you're a scaredy-cat on the road, you may be intimidated.  You can either choose to jump in and deal with it or find alternative ways to get around. Nobody can tell you "this is the safe way for a first-time driver to get from A to B.", I have no problem driving in Italy, but for your chosen destinations, I wouldn't., millions of people have done this and survived.  What makes you think you wouldn't be safe doing something that millions can do safely?, If you have a car, use it to go to places that are not easily reached by public transport. Especially Orvieto and Siena are so easy to reach, they're full of tourists and a car is of no added value whatsoever. On the other hand, there are plenty of destinations where a car is an advantage and you will encounter fewer tourists., Thank you! We will try!, Thank you - I appreciate the advice. We may opt out. I can be a little anxious behind the wheel and my husband prefers not to drive. We may take a day trip with a tour company to do a wine tour. :), Bear in mind that no one is trying to dissuade you from taking day trips or even overnight trips. it's simply a matter of choosing the right tool for the job. For Orvieto and Siena, public transport is the right tool. For smaller, more out of the way destinations (like those mike9 mentions in No. 4), a car would be the right tool., However, people might try to persuade you to look for a local cantina in or around Florence (I believe there are a handful in Florence proper) rather than spend time and money on a wine tour., I'm trying to persuade you to go and see some off the beaten track places in "real" countryside. The scenery especially in southern Tuscany is just like the picture books. Have another look at the map - if you leave Rome Airport and pick up the A12 towards Civitavecchia that I can assure you is a quiet road and dual carriageway (2 lanes in each direction). Just past Civitavecchia turn right towards Vetralla and Viterbo and head over to pick up the S2 on the north side of the city of Viterbo and you will find that an easy drive. Note most road signs list place names not road numbers in Italy so make sure the passenger is following a map and looks out for names of towns and villages on the way.You can look at Italian roads on line using Google Street View - have a look and see there's not much to worry about. At the Florence end head north on to the A1 autostrada which will be busy and between 2 and 4 lanes each direction. The airport is north of the city /(in the general direction of Bologna) so just follow the A1 until you see the sign  for the airport. Some autostrade are tolled but the only sections you would need to pay for are on the A12 and A1 so a few euros in change will be enough for that. See - I'm trying to boost your confidence!] [I cannot seem to find a straight answer on ferry timetables in April for the Amalfi Coast. It looks like the ferries run more regularly during high season but it is also dependent on the weather., When do they finalise the start date for running more regular timetables?, In April generally the ferries run to Capri from Positano, Sorrento and Naples. From Mid May the ferries begin to the link the towns along the coast. Look at 2019 timetables they won't change  much., Not sure if ferries run in April, I don't think they start until May.   You could try and contact Sorrento tourism (https://www.livesalerno.com/ferry-connections] [Can it be done? I'm asking because my brother rented a car for Tuscany 4 years ago and he used his Mexican's drivers license and it was fine, although some websites say that you need to get an international drivers license which we would like to avoid if it is not entirely necessary. Last year we rented a car in Scotland and we use the Mexican's drivers license without problems., Legally you need an IDP, car rental companies never used ti check but there has been a clampdown, if you are stopped by the police (not uncommon) you can be fined it also invalidates your insurance both for yourself and the car., You <strong>must</strong> have an IDP (it's not a license, but a permit) AND your regular driver's license., How much does an IDP cost in Mexico? And how much will you pay for car rental, insurance, fuel, and tolls? Avoiding an IDP seems an odd way of trying to save money., An IDP is just a translation of your license, why not just get it.https://www.wikiprocedure.com/index.php/Mexico_-_Obtain_an_International_Driving_Permit, it's the law. That's how necessary it is. People have bene refused their pre-booked cars when they showed up without an IDP.] [I'm in the planning stage for a first time trip (Sept 2020) to Italy and I have booked a toured to Venice, Florence and Rome with a small group. Normally I do all the planning myself but wanted to try the group thing because of the driving concerns etc. I want to add a week before the group tour and need some advice., The locations I want to visit are  Milan, Cinque Terre, Pisa and Lake Como and end up in Venice for the start of the tour. I'm trying to work out the logistics and wonder what portion would be best by car. Do you think it's too ambitious? Which should I drop if it's too much., Thanks in advance for any feedback.Moe, Driving concerns?, Trains are a great option too...., I've gotten the message after doing a lot of reading that driving isn't recommended in areas such as Venice, Rome and Florence.  I don't have a problem driving but if it's advisable not to in certain areas then I'll take other transport., My challenge is what to focus on for the first week in Italy before my tour starts from Venice on Sept 21.  Do I fly into Milan and can I go to both Cinque Terra and Lake Como areas?  I'd like to visit Pisa as well but don't know if that's too much., What do you think?, It is a liitle ambitious, depending on what time you arrive in Milan, you could to Pisa by train spend a night there it is enough. Train to La Spezia to use a base for Cinque Terre, then back to Milan and from Milan do a day trip to lake Como by train. No need for a car, you could of course concentrate on Milan and Lake Como having a few days on the lake. Your tour sounds a bit of a waste of money those 3 cities are easily done by train and visited easily without a guide. You would have been better looking for a tour that covered the other places., The tour includes all travel, accommodation, main sites and activities.  I normally don't use a tour group but thought for Italy I would because it seems overwhelming.  You really don't see the value of a tour?, No, I personally don't see the value of a tour in Italy, which IMO is one of the easiest countries in the world to plan on your own. Especially a tour of the places you've chosen to visit, which are the easiest places to visit in that country. Overwhelming? I can see how that might have been true 30 years ago, but today, why?, I don't see a reason for a car considering you're heading to incredibly popular spots easily reachable by train., Tours can be good for the right person and depending on where you going. I don't know your tour but a tour of just cities too me holds no value, unless you want to be with a group and everything they offer you really want to do. Rome, Venice and Florence are very easy to do on your own. The majority of tours can be done cheaper on your own, of course you pay the extra for all the planning and arranging but you are also tied to their itinerary., Leaving aside the matter of the tour, you won't use a car in Milan, Cinque Terre, Pisa, or Venice. It will sit in a parking spot in these places. Use trains or buses to travel between them., For Lake Como, a car is only useful if you plan to drive around the lake rather than travel on it. But use Varenna as your base for this region, and to get there from Milan the cheapest and easiest means is to take a local train — 1 hour journey time from central Milan, €6.70 fixed price (or €10 first class) each way., Look for rail schedules and fares:, Book online to save time and to get the best fares for longer sectors. You only need to booking reference number, with no need to print a ticket, or you can use the Trenitalia app. Enter the Italian forms of the names of destinations., For longer routes, also compare bus fares:, With a bus, you are guaranteed a seat at no extra cost and you get wifi. However, check where buses terminate in each city — bus stations are often some distance from the city., You're so right.  I had been pondering this as well.  Thanks for the feedback., Ok that makes a lot of sense.  This is just the information I need., I think I need to start over.  lol, Obviously there is more to see in Italy that 3 weeks wouldn't cover., Thanks so much.] [The problem with you "add ons" is where they are. Pisa is about 50 minutes on a local train from Florence. If your tour has a free day - or even half day -  that should satisfy your need to see the city. Personally think Lucca has a bit more to offer and its only half an hour away from Pisa - and has direct trains from Florence too, taking about 75 minutes.Cinque Terre is about 2 1/2 hours by train from Florence and a bit further on direct trains from Milan. However Milan and Lake Como would make a good combination. If you are heading towards Venice, could we perhaps interest you in eg. Lake Garda, Verona, Vicenza, Padova ..... to name but a few??, Yeah, that was the challenge I saw. The locations are too spaced apart and I'm not sure what the best transport is.  I will review my itinerary keeping in mind of your suggestions.  At some point, I need to commit to something!  lol, If I'm going for 3 weeks, I want to be based in as few locations as possible., Any suggestions for that?  Does this sound reasonable?, Fly into Milan, Lake Como, Venice, Florence, Cinque Terre, fly out of Rome?, Trains between Pisa - Monterosso (5Terre) - Milan - Como and Venice run every hr.It can all be done on motorways too.Pisa is 3 3/4 hrs by train from Rome Fiumicino airport.Pisa has furthermore a international airport which can be reached from Toronto, Montreal, Vancouver, etc. with 1 plane change., Yes, sounds OK for 3 weeks. Perhaps 2 - 3 nights Milan, 3 - 4 nights somewhere on Lake Como, best part of a day Lake Como - Venice so say 4 nights in Venice, 4 nights Florence, 2 in Cinque Terre (Pisa is on the way so call in for a couple of hours) and  that should leave you 4 or 5 nights in Rome. Enough to leave you time for the odd day or half day trip eg. on Lake Como, one of the islands around Venice, perhaps Lucca or Siena from Florence. Enough to keep going without being too fast and enough time to get a feeling for each of your main stops.As Mecker says, there are international flights from Pisa , but also from Florence usually via one of the european hubs such as London, Paris or Amsterdam, but then you really wouldn't want to miss Rome. Perhaps look for an open jaw ticket, into Milan and back from Rome, Thanks Mike9, I like your suggestions., Thanks for the info.  I'm aiming for direct flights otherwise the journey is too long., ....so you will fly into FCO, Can you cancel the tour?, There are no driving concerns if you take the train. Which you should., And if you're used to doing things on your own, I'd be surprised if you didn't find a tour, um... confining., You're their prisoner, doing precisely what they tell you to do for precisely as long as they tell you to do it. No more, no less. Also, check where their hotels are. Probably out of town, for their transportation's convenience--not for yours., I can't think of any places on the European mainland more easily done independently than "the Big Three" in Italy. That's one reason I like them! Very, very, <em>very</em> much. But only within my own personally decided timeframe and based on my own personal interests., Can you cancel?, Yes I can still cancel.  I do agree with what you are saying.  I also think the language was intimidating me but from what you all are saying, it's easy to get around.Thanks for you feedback., Book your high speed train tickets Milan - Venice - Floence - Rome on line up to 3 months in advance for best prices.] [You're not going anywhere that anyone <em>remotely</em> associated with tourism won't speak enough English to communicate the essentials. And probably more., Along with a lot of people who <em>aren't</em> remotely associated with tourism., You're going to have such a better time doing this on your own, doing what you want when you want for as long as you want (or can)., Though I have to say that Milan, Cinque Terre, Pisa and Lake Como all in a week's time is a bit... rushed.I hope you've got more than that for Rome, Florence and Venice., If September is the new October, based on changing weather patterns, you may simply want to hold off on scheduling Cinque Terre until you're assured of a couple of sunny days. From either Florence or Milan. Though it makes more sense, if you're flying into Rome, to just keep heading north as much as possible., There are lot of other areas, places and town I would put before Pisa, why there?, There is only one reason why any tourist goes to Pisa ;-), Though actually it's not so bad.Not the most exciting destination in Italy (or even in Tuscany)but not unpleasant either., Been going to Italy for 20 years, never gone to Pisa...LOL, Well, mrmoto, you really should give it a go, if only to see how ineffably stupid it really is., The town of Pisa arguably does have some other attractions, though., I think the Pisans are incredibly smart., "No, no, nothing to see here except the Field of Miracles. So get in, take your photo, get out and give us our city back by 5 pm.", I'll be there tomorrow..passing through,on the way to the airport., Time for a walk along the river and a decent lunch!] [Hello, We are looking at going hiking with a 6 and 8 year old in the Dolomites for 3 nights in summer. Can anyone recommend some beautiful routes that suit a 6 year old?. I was thinking around the Bolzano/ St Christina /Val di Gardena area.I can't seem to find much on the web.Thanks heaps!, There is a nice walk from Soprabolzano back into Bolzano, you pass the beautiful earth pyramids. Ortisei offers some fairly easy hikes from the top of the cable car. Depending on the kids, the Tre Cime circular is not that difficult only about 10km. At Carezza there is nice there and back to a beautiful mountain hut from the top of the chairlift., Sounds good re cable car to get up high!  Maybe I should have been more specific-that we are looking for a 3 night circular route (that is not too difficult given the age of the kids.)  We would like to stay at refugios/mountain huts too. How/where can we get info to help us pre-plan? I have a list of huts, but no route map. I would love to hear if there are any precise routes. :), There are thousands of options, and not only in the Dolomites., A sample here: https://www.suedtirol.info/en/experience/summer/hiking/family-hikes] [Hi  anybody kniw somewhere reasonably cheap  to stay on shores of Garda eg Sirmione or Salo? My son is on interrail trip. Ideally somewhere close to lake shore. He has no tent., Riva del Garda at the north end of Lake Garda has an HI hostel, I have stayed there, it was fine.https://www.hihostels.com/hostels/riva-del-garda-benacus, Thanks v much] [It’s my first trip to Italy (and actually overseas) and I’ve been trying to go for forever. I’ve finally booked tickets and I’m flying to Rome April 21, landing April 22, and leaving May 8th., I’m unsure how to plan this because I’m flying in and out of Rome, but want to see Florence, some of Tuscany, Amalfi, Pompeii and Then some days in Rome. I’m unsure to start in Rome or finish in Rome and which way to go first before I loop around back to Rome to fly out., Since I’m a first time traveler, someone suggested I head to Florence first for a handful of days because it is small and I can get my bearings, and then head south to Naples/Amalfi for a few days (Where to stay?) then head back up to Rome and stay about four or five days then fly out. Does this make sense to others?, I definitely want to go to Florence, I’m unsure how long to really stay there. I’m an artist and want to see Alll the art of course. I don’t know if I should have a home base in Florence and then day trip out to other Nearby places in Tuscany..I won’t be driving so I don’t even know if the Tuscany part is possible., If I’m definitely going to Florence and Rome , what can anyone suggest in between it I do not go to Naples?, The trip that I seek is art, food, relaxation, and people watching with seeing all the important things I can fit in, but ideally I’m not looking to backpack or get stressed. I just want to have a good time, enjoy myself and maybe meet people and be happy! I’m unsure if Naples is overwhelming for a first time traveler like me., Rome also overwhelms when when I read about it. It is busy, huge and I’m going alone. I am from NYC- so not scared of busy cities but everyone makes Rome seem amazing but overwhelming., How many days in Florence and Rome are suggested and then what In between?, Any suggestions and help would be very much appreciated!, It's like worrying whether to put on your pants first, and then your t-shirt, or the other way round. It doesn't matter., Not to me. Too much backtracking., it's just a city. Not sure what would make it more or less overwhelming than any of your other destinations. Listen, what you need is a good guidebook. or two. Find a bookshop, a library, get some books (the company that manages this board has a few) and decide on where you want to go. A lot of your very basic questions (and others you haven't thought of yet) will be answered that way., I don't think Rome is overwhelming at all.  The central area (which is where most visitors spend their time) is actually not that big and most of it can be seen just by walking.  I would leave Rome 'til last so you are in your departure city before flying home.  If Florence is important, then perhaps head there immediately on arrival into Italy., If you want something more relaxed and not running around then choosing only  two or three places to stay sounds sensible.  You can always do a day trip or two if you wish.  Florence, in particular, is well suited to exploring out of the city by train or bus.  I see no reason why Florence - Naples/Amalfi - Rome wouldn't work perfectly well.  So would Florence - Tuscan or Umbrian smaller town - Rome., Two weeks, three main locations: Rome, Florence/Tuscany, and Naples area. Four full days in each, with a bit of wriggle room for travelling. Use trains to get around. The order doesn't mtter., That's it., It would take about 2 hrs from the Leonardo da Vinci–Fiumicino Airport to Florence by train, so if you can cope with that after your trans Atlantic flight, then why not use that plan. Otherwise just stay in Rome at the start. How important is it to you that you see Pompeii? It is your holiday and if you have always dreamed of seeing it then go. Otherwise there are (shock horror) a lot of Roman ruins in Rome. Ostia Antica is the old port area for ancient Rome and one you should look up online, which is out in the suburbs of Rome and an easy urban rail trip. There is also all the sights in the centre of Rome, as well as a number of museums with Roman statues, mosaics, artifacts etc., Sounds like you have 16 nights in Italy. If you want to look at the available art galleries/museums in Florence then I recommend 4 nights minimum.  You can go for day trips from Florence after that, or stay in a few places South of Florence on the way to Rome - get a guide book and read up on the myriad options available to you. I also recommend a minimum of 4 nights in Rome. This will leave a max of 8 nights so a trip to Naples etc is doable on top of Rome and Florence or you can dedicate more time to those two cites and Tuscany, On the specific question..it would depend for me on what time you arrive in Rome.If possible and if you want to keep to that itinerary,then I'd head to Florence first., Then Naples and around,and finish in Rome.It's always a good idea to finish in the city you fly out from,rather than arriving there last minute for an international flight!, Then simplify your journey., Forget 'Tuscany' — it's a region that's the equivalent of a state, not a neighbourhood. So many people have it on their lists simply because they have heard of it, and not because they have done any research to learn whether or not there is something of interest there, beyond Florence, and then how to travel within the region., Also forget the Amalfi coast. Again, this is a name or brand that has acquired a mystique that does not convey the reality of the place. Yes, it has some magnificent coastal views but so does much of Italy elsewhere. It also has congestion, steep climbs, high prices, not much else to do beyond queuing everywhere., Since you will land in Rome then make the most of your time there to get your bearings' and immerse yourself in Italian culture and history. As others in this thread have pointed out, there is plenty in this city alone to satisfy your curiosity about relics of Ancient Rome along with more recent art., Then go to Florence if you must. But include Venice as well, as this is unique and has an uncertain future. You will be a little too early to enjoy the Biennale, but there are plenty of interesting permanent museums and galleries to keep you occupied, in the unlikely event that you get tired of exploring the network of islands that comprise the city in the lagoon., Then,on the division of days...roughly the same in each area works fine.3 bases., As you are interested in art,you won't have any problems filling the time in Florence,but of course you can do some day trip if you want.No need to decide that in advance though..., Then Naples or alternatively a smaller place nearby,as a base for Amalfi Coast/Pompeii., And finally Rome.As mentioned,the centre is not enormous and as long as you have 4 days there,you can see a lot..., There are of course thousands of alternatives.Italy has more than 50 UNESCO world heritage sites,and many more interesting places.But the 3 centre trip is a good one to start with..., Welcome to the forum., I also think with 16 days you can happily divide your time between  Rome, Florence (plus some rural Tuscany), and Venice. I also agree that dropping Naples, Pompeii, and the Amalfi Coast is a good idea on a first trip., Whether you start in Rome or not depends on (a) your tolerance for jetlag - which might be unknown if you haven't crossed eight or more time-zones on a flight, and (b) what time of day you arrive into FCO Airport., If your flight lands before about 2:00 pm, then heading straight to Florence could be fine - just make sure you don't plan to get to Florence after say 6:00 pm or before 7:00 am., A rough plan could be, Florence (six nights ... this includes two extensive day-trips to Tuscan parts)Venice (four nights)Rome (five nights), If you have an extra night - you could break your return journey at say Bologna, and overnight there - at very little additional cost, you get a taste of another, different city., Fast trains (freccia) are often much cheaper booked 2-3 months in advance, so if you settle your itinerary, you can start checking fares pretty-well straight away. For trains, see www.hihostels.com/tripbooks/italy-1374, If the people advising you attempted Rome without a guidebook (or two)--as it appears you're also trying to do--then yes, I can understand how it might seem over-whelming. What with no overview, no maps, no understanding of which sights are close (or distant) to other sights, no understanding of the public transit system, etc..., Rome is like NYC in at least one sense: as large as they both are, they're really made up of a bunch of neighborhoods. And those neighborhoods aren't overwhelming at all. And central Rome, which you're unlikely to leave, is <em>far</em> smaller than Manhattan., If you're landing in Rome, I would suggest staying in Rome for the first several days. It's a great place to get the Italian equivalent of "sea legs" and a great place to recover from jet lag. If you stay in central Rome, you're likely to encounter something extraordinary on even the shortest, most jet-lagged initial neighborhood walkaround. Without even trying., It's also a good dress rehearsal for the even greater urban intensity of Naples, if decide to go there., The best way to determine how many nights where is probably to decide which sights you must absolutely see, how many days it will take to cover them, and then build in a little extra down-time to process and decompress. But that assumes a knowledge that you don't yet appear to have--but that you could quickly acquire., If you're an absolute Renaissance art maven, you might want to give an equal number of nights to Florence as you do to Rome--5 each, say. Or if you're planning on day trips from Florence to other Tuscan cities., Regardless of what time your plane departs from Rome to go home, you'll certainly want to spend the night before departure back in Rome. A good rule of thumb is to never wake up more than a taxi ride away from the airport on departure day. Which is to say: don't tempt Murphy's Law., Again, your research will help to clarify your priorities, and the time it will take to cover them, much better than a travel forum possibly can. Guidebooks will pay for themselves in the time, effort, frustration and yes, money they will save you. Think of them as user's manuals for your destinations and ask yourself if you would spend as much money on a big, expensive item as you will on this holiday if it <em>didn't</em> come with a user's manual.] [To summarize:Rome is the gateway drug.I would start with the gateway drug., It's also a <em>very</em> nice Act Three ... can cut it both ways., Yes., Also...splitting the stay start and finish is a bit more of a PITA...more time in transit,checking in and out etc.Do everything 4 times instead of only 3 ;-), Sometimes it's inevitable,but personally I avoid that if I can (also because I almost always do a linear route,not a straight return)., I agree with one Rome stay only. And if you have it first, then if your flight home is from say 2:00 pm onwards, then you can travel by train to FCO from elsewhere. We trained it from Bologna on our last trip - to catch a 3:00 pm flight - worked very well., BTW we've found non-EU arrival into FCO Airport to be pretty slow (especially immigration), however departure is pretty sharp and efficient by comparison., Well, there's also the psychology of the thing., "Here I am in Rome for the first time and the first thing I'm going to do is... drag my jet-lagged carcass onto a train and get the hell out of Rome.", I doubt it's a mindset that comes naturally to most people.But if it does, fine., For me, Venice will always be the cherry on top.Not clear if that's on the agenda yet., Yes ... I'll buy that., I appreciate your honesty! I wanted to see Amalfi and Naples because my family is from there. And yes Amalfi looks beautiful., I like the idea of Rome, Florence, Venice (I just thought it was quite far from Rome) - how many nights do you suggest From your personal experience in Venice since you seem to know the city?, it seems like a long train (Googled) ride from Venice to Rome, and suggestion what might be one good night stop on my way back to Rome? I might head to Rome a day early before my departure to get my bearings so I’m not rushing., thank you for the links!, This is what I think my problem is, all of the alternatives. Thanks for your suggestions!, Thank you! Your reply is very helpful. i do get into Rome at about 12PM however, I honestly think that I won’t want to travel more after getting off the plane. I did do a direct flight, but I have no idea how I’ll feel and I feel like getting off the plane and on a foreign train might not be ideal., I also love the idea of Bologna., And I am liking the Idea of Venice, I just thought it was too far from Rome (or just kind of would take up one of my days significantly) Because I have to fly back out of Rome. I like your itinerary I’m going to play around with it for a bit , thank you!] [Yes! I think you’re right. I don’t think I want to land in Rome and then leave it. I think it’s too much., I bought and I’m using the Rick Steves Italy 2020 guidebook which I do like so far. He really simplifies things. If there are any other guidebooks you recommend I am open!It helps to talk to people because as I’m reading the book I feel indecisive. All the maps and suggestions will be truly helpful once I can figure out the itinerary., haha I feel like that will be me.  I do believe I will have to loop around and stay one night in Rome before I depart because if there’s one thing I hate it is dramatically rushing while being potentially confused., I didn’t plan on Venice because it’s far from Rome. so I’m going to try and figure out how I might do this. Maybe I can split my Rome stay 3 days to begin, and when I head back another two.I had Naples and Amalfi on my mind because my family is from there., Use trenitalia.com to look at train times and schedules - you need to use the Italian names - Roma, Firenze, Venezia. It is 4 hrs from Rome to Venice on a fast train,but book as early as you can to get a discounted rate - a max of 3 months in advance., Missed your last post prior to posting mine - sounds like Venice will not work for you this time around., I like Venice very much,but there is no great reason why you MUST go there., Naples and around actually has a lot of positives...apart from the one you pointed out...compared to heading up to Venice., Its nearer to Rome.It's cheaper than Venice.The food is considerably better ;-) The weather is usually better too., It has far more impressive coastal scenery,better sea too.And great archaeological sites.And IMHO,friendlier local people too!, Venice is unique,different...but Naples is a great city for many other reasons., You keep saying you want to visit Naples and Amalfi because your family is from there ....OK, but what does that mean to you? Are you going to pad around some ancient neighborhood asking folks if they remember Zio Luigi or scour back alleys for numero 324 calle dolorosa? Or is it a more intangible thing? You'll sit on a port-side bench in Naples and imagine your ancestors? That's all wonderful, but in reality I wouldn't waste vacation time chasing down dreams that aren't going to mean anything when you get there., You also keep saying things like "...seems like it's too far from...."  Please get a map and look at the little legend on the bottom that tells you the scale. This is how the brain orients itself to how far distances are in terms of miles and kilometers., After decades of European travel I am firmly in the camp of those who keep going upon arrival, no matter what kind of a mess their brains and bodies are. I figure I'm useless that day anyway, so why not be useless on another train or bus., Yeah. First of all, Naples I hear is beautiful and I would love to see where my grandparents came from if that’s ok with you. Yeah I’d sit there and eat some of what I hear is the best food, walk around and see things. Isn’t that what travel is?  Secondly, Amalfi is ALSO beautiful and I want to experience different scenery. My grandfather is from there and these Are very direct things with meaning for me.  So it means something to ME, and if that’s something you can’t wrap your mind around then Idk what to tell you.Some of us grew up hearing stories that we’d like to see for our own eyes., Secondly, I have seen maps thanks! The thing is that it takes of a lot of time for the day if the place is a little further than I would want to go, and then I lose time. Do you get that part of it?  Also, some people, SOME, have chronic illnesses like myself. And I do not just “keep going” I have to take into account the toll extra travel may take on my body so that I’m not complete mush for my entire trip. I hope that helps , if you’re annoyed by my questions then move along and take your condescending decades of traveling self somewhere else. I’m not interested in that., Just in case it helps, there is a through train from the airport station at Fiumicino (FCO) to Florence and Venice around 3 pm  - about 3 hours to Florence and another 2 more on to Venice. Otherwise it will be train into Rome and train out again. If you decide to stay in the city, then no need to book in advance for that journey, it is a fixed price. I would suggest you find a hotel near Termini station so you don't have far to walk on your first evening and easy to get back when you decide to move on. And there are through trains from Venice to Naples if that's what you decide to do - OK they go via Florence and Rome and the through journey takes about 6 hours, but it makes for easy travel even if it takes most of a day., Yes,absolutely...if you want to stay that first night in Rome,get a room near to Termini station., It is full of options.Mostly economical ones!, Then you can sleep,get up early and head to Florence(or wherever you decide)next morning., As usual, stcirq your views are appreciated even when I don't totally agree with them. If you arrive in Rome and have to leave from Rome, I'm not sure how much difference it makes whether you backtrack or, um, front-track...? And I strongly believe  that a first, let-lagged day in Rome needn't be a total write-off. Mine was well-nigh magical., I agree that it's rather quaint to hear how far away Venice is from Rome when we frequently see itineraries that try to cover all four corners of Europe in a comparable amount of time., Other than research, research, research (you'll probably outgrow the Rick Steves "Europe with training wheels" approach before you even arrive), my other main advice to a first-timer would be: keep focused. If there are 3-4 places you know you want to see, stay focused on them. I'm very opposed to this idea of, "Gee, I'd like to stop somewhere in between, I wonder where?" If you have to wonder, it probably isn't worth deducting time from the places you <em>know</em> you want to visit., So as tempting as the small stipend I receive from the Venice Chamber of Commerce makes it to encourage you to include that city, I'll refrain. If it's not a place that grabs you by the lapels and screams "Visit me, you fool!" in your face, then it's not a place that does that. But it did to me., Italy is a vast cornucopia and it's very easy to get distracted by all the possibilities. Stick to what lured you there in the first place., And I do practice what I preach. My first visit to Italy, before I ever had the faintest inkling that I might one day live here, was a week apiece in Rome, Florence and Venice. No day trips, no distractions, no nothing. I still consider that a near-miraculous bit of dumb beginner's luck. And those are still the 3 cities that i've spent more time in than anywhere else in Europe thanks to multiple return visits. "Come back you fool, we're not done with you!", Naples is more of an Advanced Italian Studies destination. But if you have your reasons, and you're convinced they're good reasons, go for it. I just hope you're not overly keen on sidewalks because you won't find many of them in central Naples. A visit to the Archeological Museum is good prep for a visit to Pompeii rather than the other way around. And I don't know of a greater art museum with a lower visitor density than the Capodimonte., Better food in Naples than in Venice, Luca?Neither man nor woman live by pizza alone!(A public service announcement sponsored by the Venice Chamber of Commerce)] [I know you love Venice Craig...but no-one could persuade me that the food there is better than in Naples ;-), As some may be aware,I am convinced that there isn't a place in Italy where you can't find good to great food., But if I had to average it out,considering major and medium sized cities anyway (I think I've visited all of them,most several or indeed many times)...I'm afraid Venice would be at the bottom., For my tastes anyway,others may well feel differently!, In No. 26, you're verging on biting the hand that feeds.It's not a good look on you.If you're asked, "are you sure you have good reasons for doing what you want to do?" a simple yes will suffice. A non-sarcastic explanation would be even better., Also, chronic illness is an important factor and not something you should just spring on people. To my mind, all the more reason to slow down and stay focused., That wouldn't be the first adjective that comes to my mind. Intense, maybe...?, Anyway, I'm out of here until there's evidence that OP has done the necessary research and perhaps some reflection on how to address people who are only trying to provide some "tough love" to ensure the best choices are being made., Well nothing I said was sarcastic, it was expressive. I don’t feel very fed by their comments. Everyone has views that are helpful but sometimes it’s the way you say them., And when someone is throwing in “I do this with my body, do that”- well some can’t. And up comes why, and why I’m saying “this or that is far”. Condescending someone isn’t a good look either. im not worried what looks good on me though. I truly appreciate your comments, however, you’ve been very helpful., That is very helpful info! Thank you, That's very snowflakey I reckon. I thought the OP came back with a pretty cool response to the usual barrage of hectoring and lecturing people often get dosed with on here. If some of the regular inmates are going to always take as their starting position that a new OP is a total ignoramus, then occasionally some will come back with a good stinging response., Well done OP., So if Naples and the Amalfi Coast have sufficient connection and resonance for you, then by all means go for it, and drop Venice (which is nice in a damp, decaying way, but does tend to get rather over-boosted, not the least on here)., You will need to research well the logistics or Naples | possibly Ercolano | Pompeii | Sorrento | Amalfi | possibly Salerno, so you don't get bogged down on slow trains and even slower buses. There are efficient ways to do things, and not discounting ferries between Naples, Sorrento, Amalfi, Salerno., The OP doesn't need to"drop Venice".She didn't mention it in her first post,it was introduced by other people ;-), Indeed ... the logic is compelling. I think I was just doing a Trumpster - creating my own narrative and deploying an unreal reality based on fake news!, Is it OK if I ask what you mean by this, please? Because 'beautiful' is not an adjective I've often heard used to describe Naples. It's a pretty gritty place, in my experience. In a beauty contest of Italian cities, it wouldn't compete well with most of the other cities on your list., Ah! - but what city isn't gritty in places? And you must admit there are some excellent places around to visit which are often mentioned on this site. And while we are here there are some decent mostly small hotels around the Piazza Dante right in the centre of the city, walking distance from some of the main sites like the duomo, and archaeological museum, the sotterranea (Naples Underground) and on metro line 1 - though if your budget is generous, look at hotels with views over the bay] [Naples has a gritty historical centre,which is what most short-stay visitors see...I suppose most of them don't visit Vomero or Posillipo!, On the contrary,cities like Rome have a much more restored historical centre.The"gritty"areas certainly exist there too,but again...they are not places that tourists go to.How many "outsiders"visit Tor Bella Monaca?, Well, Chiaia, that I’ve thought of visiting looks beautiful to me. Castel Nuovo and medieval structures that I consider beautiful I have heard of. You can view the gulf of Naples from areas I have read. Grit and city stuff doesn’t bother me I understand it’s quite different from, say, Florence. I’m not going anywhere just for beauty, but all of Italy seems beautiful to me from here as I’ve dreamt of the trip for so long., Chiaia is nice..not cheap though!, Vomero is up the hill from Chiaia...great views from up there., They are very nice areas to walk around,though not really convenient for day trips out of the city., Thanks for interesting answers., Great info! Thank you, Ok,you're welcome., Don't worry,I'm sure you'll have a great time.Don't try to cram in too much...the 3 base trip is fine for your timeframe., And the places themselves are all really interesting..., Rome 3-5 nights to start, then to Florence 4 nights, then somewhere else, then back to Rome last 1-2 nights., Like others, I personally don't like the idea at all of rolling off a flight, and immediately hopping on a train somewhere else. I know some people, like StCirq, whose opinions generally make a lot of sense, prefer to 'push on' that first day as it's 'wasted' anyway. But I firmly disagree on this topic., After a long-haul, overnight flight, I just want to have a shower and then bask in the magic of wherever I have arrived. In your case,  that would mean 2 nights in Rome first, to recuperate, get your bearings, and enjoy the sense of having arrived. Then at the end you can spend another 2 or 3 nights in Rome. I really don't feel it's a waste of time. Plus, if you stay in 2 different neighbourhoods, you also get a different perspective on the city., I think Naples IS beautiful in many ways- besides a bunch of other things. It's a fascinating city for sure. A lot of it makes a lot more sense when you read up on the history- for 1500 years Naples was basically in a different country than Rome. (or Florence or Venice for that matter)., Did you already get a guidebook? (I don't really consider Rick S's books guidebooks, they are more DIY package tour manuals), Thank you!! I’m very excited. I appreciate you and everyone. I think 3 bases are good also. I wanted to stay a month And see more, but it’s just too much money. I will go back.] [Very helpful things mentioned, thank you] [Hi everyone,, I'm planning to go Sardinia early July this summer. As a solo traveler, Im not totally sure where to stay. I will not rent a car so I will use public transportation during my trip., I'm also interested in nightlife but not sure how is it and which places are lively in Sardinia? Thanks for the responses., What are your interests, what do you plan to do in Sardinia (except visits of discoes)?, Sardinia has a public transport system but it is not recommended to solely rely on, there are some limitations you have to research and plan in advance about the routes it covers and the timing of the services. Coming to the accommodation you can find many places according to your preferences. Happy Travelling] [Hi All,I have a 5 hours stopover in Bergamo airport during a weekday in May. I would like to use this time to visit one place in Milan if possible.I am hoping to see Duomo. I think there is a shuttle bus to central station from the airport. But I have to change a subway to get to Duomo. It seems the cheaper way to get here. Do you think I have enough time to go to Duomo and back to the airport?Is there any cheap and fast way to get to Duomo?, Thanks in advance., I don't think you have time. Bergamo airport isn't a huge one to get out of, but even if your plane is on time I can't see you being at the Duomo in less than 1½ hours from landing. Allow the same time to get back. I'm assuming that you need to check in 2 hours before your onward flight. That's your 5 hours spoken for., But you probably have time for a quick look at Bergamo's charming upper city, a much shorter bus ride (or 2?) away., Yes,if your 5 hours includes the 2 hours that you will need to be back at the airport,not enough time to go to Milan and back., Even if that 2 hours is excluded,it takes an hour and a half each way to get into the centre of Milan...you will be tight for time! Add getting off the plane,waiting for buses etc..., As Craig suggests above,you could head into Bergamo Alto., Direct local bus outside the airport.The ride takes about 20-30 minutes each way., Well worth it if you've not seen the old city before. Or even if you have., Agree with the above you really don't have time, and Bergamo Alto is beautiful., Thanks for the advice., Ok,you're welcome..., Another vote for just staying in Bergamo (you don't have time for Milan) and exploring Città Alta. It's a really attractive/interesting old part of the city, and compact enough to get your head around in the short amount of time that you have. Here's some bus/ticketing info:, https://www.atb.bergamo.it/en/atb-network/tourism-in-bergamo/airport-bus] [I’m thinking of doing something uncharacteristically mainstream with my next travels – by which I mean, going to Italy.  Everyone I know who’s been has loved it without exception.  I hesitate, though, because I tend to most enjoy travels where I’m around locals much more than tourists.  Are there places one can have that experience in Italy and still enjoy what people love so much about it?  I particularly like long-distance walking and day hikes, and small towns.  Does it make sense to go to Italy if that’s what most draws me (history and architecture are of interest, too, but not as much)?  Some initial online searches suggests Abruzzo is quite lovely and less touristed., I’d be going in the early part of May, in case that’s a variable.  Oh, and I’d prefer not to book accommodations more than a day in advance; would that be possible?, Thanks,, WAW, Plenty of options in the Dolomites and in the Alps. You will not be the only one but less crowded than main cities., Michel, Cicerone publications provide plenty of guidebooks about trekking around Italy., Michel, We will be visiting Abruzzo for 10 days in late March -- Our 4th visit -- My fathers parents are all from Pescara area -- check out the "life in Abruuzo" group on Facebook -- Some Italian is a big help -- Away from tourists means away from English speakers -- Renting a car provides much more versatility over public transit, and saves a lot of time -- Some of the places we will visit are Sulmona, Scanno, Chieti, Vasto, Lanciano, Guardiagrele, (Crafts Museum), Penne, Tagliacozzo, Pescasseroli and Pescocostanzo -- The Museo delle gente d'Abruzzo in Pescara is marvelous -- Chieti has a great archeological museum -- Buon Viaggio, Abruzzo is a good choice,for what you are looking for., As above,if you want to visit smaller places in the countryside,with few (foreign) tourists,it will be useful to a)Learn some Italian first and b)Rent a car,as there is often poor or non existent public transport in these areas., As for accommodation.Depends where exactly you go.In the larger towns and cities,no problem (even if May is a fairly busy period).You may find it tougher for the very small places,but there is accommodation around,you may just need to search for it., Further to #3 and 4 I think much of the more hilly bits of central Italy would be OK from. Marche through Abruzzo  down to Molise. Much of the tourism here is other Italians which means weekends tend to be busy. Note too several public holidays in May /June. And don't be put off some of the more remote parts of popular areas like Tuscany either for example round Monte Amiata or along the old pilgrim routes like the via Francigena which avoids many of the better known tourist spots both in northern Tuscany and between Siena and Rome., If you want walking, countyrside and quietness it is quite easy to find all over Italy. most tourists are concentrated into a fairly small area of the country, and mainly cities. Even somewhere like Cinque Terre if you take the high path you wont't see too many people. In May there is less domestic tourism so even coastal places are quiet. Abruzzo could be a great area but as Mike9 mentions there are parts of Tuscany that you can get away form it, there is some wonderful walking in Umbria, Piemonte parts of the Veneto. But most regions will offer what you want, i could probably mention somewhere in pretty much every region of Italy, however if you don't speak the language you will struggle to mix with locals, so if you don't already you at least do some studying. In May i would probably avoid the Alps and Dolomites as there could still be snow and many hotels have a shutdown between the winter and summer season., How will you distinguish Italian tourists from locals...?It's those pesky Italian tourists (and you know who you are) who will be your main competition for accommodation off the beaten track., As a matter of fact, there are large swathes of the most popular cities in Italy where locals outnumber tourists. You just have to decide to go where the tourists ain't., Granted, urban landscapes don't sound like your cup of tea. But cities are where you'll find the highest concentrations of Italy's rich cultural heritage and that's certainly one thing most people seem to "love so much"  about the country., If your questions are, are there small towns and opportunities to walk, the answers are yes of course and yes of course., There are tons of good hiking trails where the chance to meet a deer or a squirrel is hundred times higher than that of meeting a human being. Charming small non touristy cities: all those that you don't find in travel forums. For example:Cuneo, Chivasso, Biella, Domodossola, Arcumeggia, Sondrio, Vigevano, Mortara, Pavia, Cremona, Belluno, Trento, Conegliano, Bassano.........., &lt;&lt;I tend to most enjoy travels where I’m around locals much more than tourists&gt;&gt;, Surely understandable from an intellectual point of view; from a practical, not so much. For one thing, how do you actually know who is "local?"  And I hope you speak fluent Italian, because otherwise the whole overhyped notion of living like a local is an exercise in self-deception. Until you're fluent and have lived in a community for years, you're always on the other side of the window looking in. It may be wise to just accept that for what it is and not pretend you can outwit or circumvent the premise., And do you think the tourists' goals are less lofty than yours?] [A number of years ago I went to Italy with a friend who was scouting a canoe trip that started in Milan and ended in Venice. We had only a week to go along the route that followed the Po river to find towns with hotels and places to pull the canoes out of the water for the night. It was the most undertouristed part of Italy that I have every visited. There were hotels, but mostly full of local business people. There were restaurants that served the locals. It was fantastic. Over the few days that we travelled that route we stayed in Pavia, Casalmaggiore and Adria. We passed through many other small, interesting places along the way where we had to find places for the canoeists to stay. There is a pilgrims route (someone mentioned it above) that crossed our path, that I had never heard of before, with hostels and restaurants that provided food and lodging for people walking that trail. The thing about travelling through places like that is that you won't find the big famous tourist attractions but you will find interesting and beautiful surprises. I would do that trip again - this time actually staying in some of the cities we just passed through. Very very low key but very Italian., You can go 'off the beaten path' even in Venice or Rome. As someone said above, just go where the (other) tourists don't., Northern Lazio is my go-to region for off the beaten path Italy. Very few foreign toursts.See here:http://www.minorsights.com/search/label/Lazio?, OP here..., Not for the first time, I'm overwhelmed by the generosity and thoughtfulness of the replies to one of my questions.  Thanks to all of you who took the time to respond (and those who might choose to later).  This is enormously helpful.  If I go ahead with an Italy trip - and your responses make it all the more tempting - I'll definitely take time to learn some Italian.  Hope my having strong French and rudimentary Spanish will help., Ok,you're welcome! Have a good trip..., If you speak fluently French, you would have no problem in Aosta Valley, as most people there understand French (better than English). French ( a franco-provencal dialect) is the mother tongue of many of them.] [Hello, I would like some advice On visiting Rome at Easter. We arrive on Good Friday my bad organizing, the first question should we get a private transfer from the airport and book it well in advance. We are staying in Lazio near the coliseum. Onwards to my next question as we are only there for five days which is really only four full days will it be possible to tour the Vatican, coliseum and Villa Borghese allowing that's its Easter. I have looked at these places for booking in advance, but I think it may be too soon. Lastly eating will a lot of eateries be closed over this time. Probably not my last question but all my tiny brain holds for now. Thank you all in advance Lesleigh, We've been in Rome at Easter a couple of times, and the place is indeed busy., Yes - you'll have to check which of the four days of Easter the Vatican Museums | Sistine Chapel won't be open - possibly Good Friday and Easter Sunday. And of course the pope's Easter Mass and St Peter's appearance would be good to avoid., On our last trip, the Colosseum Roman Forum precinct was fenced on on the Thursday afternoon for the Stations of the Cross procession - I can't recall whether this affected visitation on Good Friday or the other days., Plenty of eateries will be open - we enjoyed wandering the Trastevere | Campo de' Fiori each evening., We've never used a private transfer from the airport.  We've either taken the Leonardo Express airport train to Roma Termini (the main station) - no pre-booking required - or taken the regional train and disembarked at Trastevere, since we were staying in that area., If you're close to the Colosseo Metro Station, that could be an option as well - you could alight from the regional service, or take the Leonardo to Termini and backtrack from there. Or alight at Trastevere Station (off the regional service) and take the tram (light rail | tram) to the Colosseum area., Unless I was going for religious reasons, personally I would avoid Rome like the plague at Easter. It's one of the busiest times of the year. Is it too late to change your bookings? Even if it costs you., It's personal preference, so up to you. There's no need to pay the higher cost of a private transfer if you don't want to., Just keep checking the websites. Vatican options will be significantly disrupted by the holiday. Anything that you can book in advance, book. Be prepared for long queues., There will be plenty of eateries open to service the countless other tourists in Rome at Easter., We've been both at Easter (x2) and not Easter (x2 - April and September) - other than the aforementioned closure probabilities, we didn't feel very inconvenienced, or notice it being more or less busy.   It's always busy., Easter Friday is not a public holiday in Italy, so all businesses (public or private) will be working as normal. This includes all restaurants, bars and cafes. This will be a good weekend for them to be open. You are right in thinking that Rome will have a lot of visitors over that weekend, and a lot of them will be Italians., The only way to get a ticket to the Borghese museum is on line, there is no physical ticket office. You have to pick a day and time slot and there is a limit to how many visitors are allowed in per slot. Also the museum is emptied of visitors before the next time slot is allowed in. I am not sure if I should describe the museum as extravagantly opulent, or as an opulent extravagance., It is always a good idea to book in advance to get into the Coliseum, regardless of when you are in Rome, but on a busy weekend it is doubly so. Places such as Piazza Navona, Pathenon, Trevi Fountain (all free) will be crowded, but when aren't they - certainly you will see the same number of people at the Trevi at 3am as 3pm, Rome is an excellent place to visit, so don't stress to much and enjoy yourself., P.S. I think Colosseo metro station may be closed on Good Friday, so that may not be an option., There's already plenty of information online about Easter opening times at your chosen destinations, so just spend some time doing searches. This will probably help you to decide which venue you go for on which day - e.g., if St Peter's Basilica were open on only one of your four days, for instance., Yes - I recall that now - trains went through without stopping at Colosseo Metro on Thursday evening (and probably Good Friday)., If you do not get a private transfer, perhaps get off the regional train service at the station nearest to your accommodation that is also linked to the trams (3 and 8 from memory) - it's probably Trastevere. The trams are quite modern, and you can take luggage on them easily enough., If all this seems more complicated than required, you could just take the Leonardo straight to Termini, and catch a taxi to your accommodation., Note that there are genuine pickpocket risks on Rome public transport and at or near stations., Thank you so much not quite so worried now, Well I cannot change things but thank you for your advice, Thank you so much] [Thank you very helpful, No need for a private transfer - if you don't want to use public transport, there will be a long queue of taxis between terminals 2 and 3 which charge a fixed fee to travel into the city which I think is still €48 though there might be a supplement for lots of luggage. If you are arriving direct from Australia you will land in terminal 3 so just look for the taxi signs as you leave customs. Signs for the trains too across the other side of the road from the terminal directly opposite terminal 3., The Hotel Lazio? It is literally next door to Termini Station, so no need for a transfer it is 2 minute walk from the station. It is not that close to the Colsseum about a 20 minute walk., Thank you, Lazio is a large region, not a smaller neighborhood in Rome, and you haven't confirmed that the <em>name</em> of your accommodation is Hotel Lazio. Just making sure you're not confused by a previous post and thinking you'll be close to Termini?, Thanks, whuzzat  We are staying at Airbnb near the coliseum . I am more concerned about being able to see the typical tourist sights at Easter , as this will be a first and last trip to Italy.] [We are in Italy for 5 weeks April-May. For part of the trip we are renting a car will be driving through the Apennines northward, making our way from Puglia to Florence.  We have a tent.  What has been other's experience in the national parks, such as around Corno Grande?  Are there always places to pitch a tent?  If so, do you need to book in advance as you seem to do for most other things in Italy?, While  a lot of our trip is B&amp;Bs and homestays, we are keen to not do that for the whole trip.  I can read a speak a little Italian, which is helpful, but I am still finding it difficult to get clear information on where all the camping is., Do you mean Parco Nazionale d'Abruzzo?, AFAIK, free camping is forbidden inside national parks in Italy.  Here you can find an official page (in English) with the campsites within the park: https://www.campingfuniviadelgransasso.com] [I am interested in renting a car in Bolzano in June.  I have noticed companies such as Hertz, Avis, etc. do not offer options to rent at the city center location.  Their only option is the airport in BOlzano. Has anyone had experience renting through some of the third party options such as wisecars?, Never heard of wisecars, but Avis, Budget and Maggiore have offices at the station, I normally book either direct or with rentalcars.com, I have just checked AutoEurope and at the railway station it gave no result, but when I selected ‘all city stations’ I came with exactly the same results as Richiavo. Looking at the map link they are more city offices than railway offices. Avis, Maggiore and Budget are in the city centre of Bolzano.] [HiMy husband and I are planning a mid-budget trip to Italy mid-April for about three weeks and then head to Greece for 2. Neither of us have been and would rather do less and absorb more in an unpressured way. We have not travelled much in Europe and previous times have been to one of the big cities which was less complicated. This is unscripted! We have also never driven in Europe, but would like a mix of train and car hire.Would it be foolish to try and not have bookings at this time of year so we could be spontaneous? I would appreciate thoughts re my plans: fly into Milan and get train to the Lake area (Como?) for about 3 days. Then a train or hire car to Portofino/Cinque Terra (stay in Vernazza?) area and explore over 4/5 days. Hire car from Lucca, explore Tuscany for a 5/6 few days (Cianti? Siena?) - this is starting to sound quite busy!. Then train to Florence for 3 days. Train to Rome: 2nights?. Does this sound like too muchAnd fly from there to Greece, preferably direct to an island, but don't see many direct flights for early May (any suggestions?). Another idea was a train from Rome to Brindisi and then a ferry to Greece? Thinking Kefalonia/Ithica.... We have been to a few islands in the Cyclades before (love it!), but thought of exploring elsewhere.Any and all advice welcome., Its all possible.You will have to decide if its too much! 5 sleeping bases for 3 weeks is not outrageous but not exactly 'laid back' either,IMHO., I wouldn't have a car for the CT area,its not too useful there.Better to go by train., Personally I'd certainly extend your time in Rome..there is loads to see and do there! That would mean cutting one of your other areas though., On the flights to Greece,there won't be much in early May...its too early for most of the summer flights., Santorini should be possible direct., Athens,for sure.So you could fly there and take a boat,or change plane somewhere., Agree car hire for Tuscan countryside but would train the rest of your trip (or if you decide to drop the car in Siena then use the hourly express bus to Florence). Driving in Italian cities like Florence is not ideal eve n for Italians! However out in the country is fine. One option might be to se Floren e a d Siena then drive south to Rome - and to avoid driving in the city drop the car at the airport and bus or train into Rome. Also agree with luca about more time In Rome - see if you make at least 3 days / 4 nights - you could easily spend that many weeks so don't underestimate the volume of sights in and around the city., NORTH ITALIAN LAKESIt's not foolish to "not have bookings" for the period after April 14th.It might be easier to go to Lake Maggiore (Stresa) as it's closer to both, Milan Malpensa airport and Cinque Terre.Varenna/Bellagio/Menaggio are about 2 hrs by train from from Malpensa airport.Stresa is 1 hr by train or bus from Malpensa airport.A car ride from Stresa to Genoa would last about 2 1/2 hrs; from Varenna, it's about 3 1/2 hrs. The traiin ride would last a bit more than 3 hrs (from both places)., FLIGHTS ROME - GREEK ISLANDS IN MAYRome - Santorini: every Saturday, Tuesday, Wednesday, ThursdayNaples - Mykonos: every Saturday, Nonetheless, I would still check to see if there are good train connections between some of the places you want to visit in Tuscany. Or in the case of Siena to Florence, good bus connections. You'll want to decide what's the best transportation tool for the job--don't just assume., I agree that 2 nights in Rome doesn't sound... unhurried., Thank you for your input and suggestions - much appreciated and all have gone into the melting pot of plans.] [Hi there - we'll be in the Nuoro region of Sardinia for 3 nights in July, and are deliberating about where to base ourselves. Nuoro? Orgosolo? Oliena? We're looking for small town atmosphere, good food, access to mountains/good hiking. We're considering an agritourismo or Airbnb, would love input there too., Thanks for your tips!-Kristin, Good hiking?I suppose you mean strenuous hiking on not signmarked trails., Signmarked trails are fine! We have two kids, so we're not that hardcore. :), Sardinia is not a hiking Island like Corsica., May be you have a look athttp://www.sardegnasentieri.it/sentieri/da-fare-famiglia?f%5B0%5D=field_zona_geografica%3A118, Don't know if you want to make it your base, but do not miss a visit to Orgosolo- all the murals (old/new, political/not) are both beautiful and fascinating and can be enjoyed with or without guidance.] [Hello, so I'm planning a trip to Italy with my parents and they want to go to Tuscany while I want to go to Sicily. We might not visit Italy again soon so we want to do both., We come from Mexico, so first things first, to which major city should we arrive to then visit Tuscany? From there, what itinerary do you recommend? I want to keep them happy, they don't want to rush, but I rather see more stuff in Sicily. How should we move in Tuscany? Renting a car? Train? And from there, what's the best way to Sicily? Ferry? Car? Plane? Train?, We are allocating 18 days max in Italy. Please share realistic and nice itineraries. All I know is that I want to visit Syracuse, and take a ferry to Malta from Sicily., Flying in and out of Italy,I'd see what is possible from your side...where in Mexico are you flying from?, To get between Tuscany and Sicily,the cheapest and easiest is flying from Pisa...direct flights to Palermo and Catania., Then...moving around within the regions,it really depends where exactly you want to go., Basically,large cities and bigger towns...use public transport,train or bus., If you want to go to small villages,into the countryside...a car is useful., Neosair has cheap direct flights from Cancun to Rome whereas Alitalia has direct flights from Ciudad de Mexico to Rome.Rome is a good starting point for Tuscany.After the visit of Tuscany, you may take a plane from Pisa to Palermo or a passenger and car ferry from Livorno to Palermo and do a loop according to your preferences. At the end, you may take a catamaran from Pozzallo to Malta or a plane from Catania to Malta.The most popular places in Tuscany and in Sicily can easily be reached by train and bus. For a combination of some places outside the beaten path, a car may be the better solution.So all depends on your interests, on the cities, landscapes or archeolgical sites you plan to visit., We had a blast driving in Scotland. Is it complicated to drive in Italy's Tuscany and Sicilia? Or I rather get a car?. For Tuscany, my parents want to visit the following cities:, SiennaColle di Val de Elsa LuccaMontepulccianoArezzoSan GiminianoPienzaMontalcinoOrviettoRoma, For driving advice, see post no. 2., How long have you got for this leg of your journey? Some of these places are not in Tuscany. Allowing four days for Rome, 1½ days for Siena and 1½ days for Orvieto, then one day in each of the other places, you're only leaving 3 or 4 days for Sicily. And have you thought about travelling time from place to place? I think you're going to start reducing your itinerary if you want to see both Tuscany and Sicily in 18 days. And I hope your trip to Malta isn't included in those 18 days., All the places you mention can be visited by public transport. But that would take time, time that you don't have. Therefore I suggest:Day 1: arrival at Rome Fiumicino airport - train to Roma Termini or Roma Tiburtina - train to Orvieto. Visit Orvieto and sleep at Orvieto.Day 2:Rent a car and drive to Arezzo - Siena. Visit Siena and sleep at Siena.Day 3:Day trip to Montepulciano - Pienza - Montalcino, etc. Sleep at SienaDay 4:Drive to Colle di Val d'Elsa - San Gimignano - Lucca - Pisa airport. Car drop off. Sleep close to Pisa airport.Day 5:Flight to Palermo (for example PSA dp 8.25 - PMO ar 9.45). Visit. Sleep at PalermoDay 6:Visit Palermo and MonrealeDay 8:Rent a car. Drive to Cefalu (visit) - Casale (visit) - Agrigento. Sleep at Agrigento.Day 9:Visit AgrigentoDay 10:Drive to Gela - Ragusa (visit) - Modica (visit) - Noto (visit) - SiracusaDay 11/12:visit SiracusaDay 13:Drive to Taormina and back up to Catania airport. Car drop off. Late evening flight to Malta. Arrival around midnight.Day 14:Visit Valetta..........., Oh my God, this itinerary is awesome! And we still have 4 days, that's perfect! Thanks!, Really? You think that you would get plenty of sightseeing time in Orvieto on that first day, do you? Or that trying to do Arezzo and Siena in one day is a good idea? Or that seeing Colle di Val d'Elsa, San Gimignano and Lucca in one day is realistic? No offence to meckerdv if post no. 6 is meant seriously, but I think you need to think again. Or buy a time machine., OK, so let's say I have 4-5 extra days. How would you assign them to the previous itinerary?] [It doesn't matter what I would do; my interests are not the same as yours. But I've already made some suggestions in post no. 5, and others have commented on public transport options. You're not obliged to follow any advice that's offered on this thread, but I'm backing out because I don't get the impression so far that you're actually interested in making the necessary drastic cuts to your itinerary if you're still serious about trying to fit ten places in Italy (including some that need more than one day), plus Malta, into 18 days. How on earth does that work? You told us that you don't want to rush, but clearly that is what you want to do. Perhaps this fairly obvious contradiction is why most of the regulars on the Italy thread haven't commented. I don't know. Read guidebooks and/or research your destinations via the Internet to decide how long you might want in each place, work out from simple Internet searches how long it would take you to get from place to place either by car or by public transport, and do the maths. It's that simple. It's your trip, so you put in the time to work out what's realistic. I wish you a happy and successful holiday., I think Mecker was making a different point to what the OP thinks ;-), I did wonder. :-), I've been to all these places.I agree, the OP cannot visit everything in the places he wants to see. But almost nobody does so. Otherwise you would need 2 weeks or more for Rome only.IMO nothing is wrong if you spend only a few hrs at Arezzo. Not all of Siena must be visited in the afternoon/evening of day 2, as the OP stays there and will come back to Siena after the day trip of day 3. Somewhat decent visits of places like Pienza don't need a lot of time. As to Lucca, I think it's perfectly possible to get a good impression in some 6 hrs. San Gimi and Colle Val d'Elsa are along the way to Lucca anyway, I agree that everything changes if you visit museums (as I use to do). But I learnt in this forum that most posters are "not into museums". And people who know nothing about the (social, economic, cultural, artistic, political, military...) History of the cities they visit find things rather "boring"., And don't forget: the OP will be completely free to skip one place if he needs more time for another one. That's perfectly possible in the given time frame (fixed by himself): 1 night at Orvieto, 2 nights at Siena, 1 night at Pisa (without visiting Pisa, of course, as the OP is not interested in)., My suggestion is just a base for the further planning of the OP. Now, it's up to him to decide where he will spend more time, what he will skip or what he will add., OK, so you quite get me. And Rome I've already visited it and we do want to visit Pisa. So if we allocate 4-5 days to the previously described 14 day itinerary perhaps I could work something very functional in 18-19 days. For instance, reading the Sicily 2-weeks itinerary, lonelyplanet was suggesting hiking in the Sicilian mountains but obviously my parents wouldn't like to do that, heck, I myself wouldn't like to do that unless I stayed plenty of time in Sicily. So based on your recommendations I will research on every single city to draw my conclusions. Your suggestions are highly appreciated to do this possible. I also do have plenty of experience traveling., Any advice on car? Is it easy to drive in Tuscany and Sicily?, Depends where you drive., Inside cities,no...I'd say very difficult,for most foreigners.Between very narrow streets,little or no parking(so many cars are double parked),lots of completely car free zones,but heavy traffic on other streets(and drivers who don't exactly follow the rules,especially in Sicily ;-)It can be very frustrating., Out in the countryside its a lot easier.And there are good major roads,highways...though there are also narrow and winding mountain roads.Depends exactly where you want to go I guess..] [We will be visiting Siciliy on mid May for about 18 days. We are in our mid 50s, loves food and wine, and hiking.We are planning to base in 3 locations (with equipped kitchen) for our visits as we prefer not to move too often. Any suggestions where should we set our base?, Depends a lot on what exactly you want to do,and what kind of places you like...small towns,big cities?, Are you going to have a car?, Food, wine, hike. We are open to small town and big cities. And we will be renting a car to move around., Then I would choose one place west coast,one east coast,and one major city., Eg....Trapani or Marsala,Siracusa and Palermo., Last few days in Palermo without the car..., Or if you want to spend more days trekking,a place in the Madonie,like Castelbuono., web spent 20 days last Sept, travelled by train between places. We stayed at Ortigia (Sirasusa), Scicli and Trapani., I think that lucapal's suggestions at #3 are spot on.  My three were also going to be Trapani, Siracusa and Palermo.  This would give you a great trip and they all have plenty of day trip options, apartments with kitchens and markets that make some self catering a pleasure not a sacrifice] [Hello fellow travelers., This year my trip will take me into Venice and out of Rome with a total of 14 nights. I'm lucky to say it will be my third time to beautiful Venice and second to amazing Rome. I leave in mid-April. I have flights booked but no hotels, so I'm very flexible at this point., My prime interests will be enjoying life in these interesting locales, art/cultural museums, music, wonderful food, and photographing the beauty around me., <strong>4 nights in Venice</strong> - my wish list includes a tour of San Marco's Basilica with an expert and I just may splurge for a Gondola ride in the early evening (unless I do the Vaporetto #1), Burano, Murano, etc., And end with <strong>4 nights in Rome</strong>. Luckily, I saw the main attractions (Vatican City, Colosseum, Palantine Hill, Tivoli) the first time 'round but it was a whirl-wind. This year, my wish list includes: St. Agnes (It was closed every time I went!), Centrale Montemartini, MAXXI, MACRO, Coppode area, etc., ........And In between? Enjoy <strong>Bologna for 2 nights</strong> (?). Then perhaps use it as home base for day trips to Ravenna (by train?) and Rimini (by train) for the mosaics &amp; possible beach stroll....... and Faenza (for a day trip: 35-minute drive by car or hire a driver/taxi??) for the ceramics., Your suggestions here would be so helpful.Bologna for 2 nights?Day trips to Ravenna and Rimini? Train rides are 1-2 hours each. Seems reasonable for day trips.Or do they deserve more time? Stay there rather than Bologna as home base?Are there other areas nearby you'd suggest I include?, Thanks for any suggestions and recommendations! I appreciate your expertise and opinions :)VSQ, It seems to me that adds up to ten nights, and at the outset you said 14 nights - where you hiding for the other four? I could suggest Bolzano, if you've not visited the Dolomites previously., Meanwhile, I would suggest three nights in Bologna, with one day-trip in the Ravenna direction, and one to Parma and Modena ... we enjoyed that., We were in Bologna in mid-May, and it was pretty warm during the day, but the evenings were beautiful.  Interesting robust city, with quite a lot to stroll around late afternoon and at dinner time., In Rome, if you've been up to Tivoli and the villas, I can recommend Ostia Antica - excellent ruins out near FCO Airport. It's a bit of a hike out there on the local train, but well worth it. They are remarkable, and strangely much under-publicised., In Rome we've liked staying in Trastevere, or the area around Campo de' Fiori / Pantheon., Hi Coalcliffff., Your math is excellent! Yes, I have some un-set days but my total is 14 for sure :), No, I have not visited the Dolomites and would love to...is Bolzano reachable by train from Venice, might you know?, So that might look like:, Venice (4 nites)Bolzano (2 nites)Bologna (3 nites including Bologna, day trip to Ravenna/Rimini and day trip to Parma/Modena) This looks packedFaenza??Rome (4 nites) and out to Ostia Antica and stay near FCO (1 nite) to leave the next morning for home., I'd also like to see the beauty of Val D'Orcia, especially for photos., I appreciate your suggestions. Thanks!, Train from Venice to Bolzano via Verona (three hours - although we broke our journey for about four hours to have a stroll around that beautiful city - or you could do it the day you travel from Bolzano to Bologna)., To get from Ostia Antica to FCO Airport involves going back to Rome - possibly not all the way to Termini, but near enough to not make much difference. Need Plan B!, No it doesn't. A taxi ride would take a little over ten minutes. Even Ostia (on the coast) to the airport would be less than twenty., I'm interested to see another traveller lured back to experience more of Venice. It's a unique place, well worth return visits., Bologna is very pleasant although itself doesn't really take much more than a day, maybe an overnight, but as you already know, it's a good base for plenty of worthwhile day-trip options. Rimini is more of a beach resort and not really that interesting, IMO. But you can change to a bus here if you want to tick the box of visiting San Marino. Parma is fairly interesting, Modena less so. Faenza I don't know, but you might like to check out Ferrara. I would seldom recommend any 'must-sees', but I could make an exception for Ravenna and its world-class mosaics. I found it worth allocating one full (and busy) day here. Think about getting a local bus from the railway station to the church of San Apollinare at Classe. The other mosaics are all accessible on foot within the town centre., Lots of opportunities. You're wise not to cram too much in., Hi Thomas67., Thanks so much for sharing your insights! It is just what I needed to judge the time the towns deserve., No, I do not want to rush. I'm learning that the first time to a place gives you a sense for it and just enough to see highlights and decide if it's interesting enough to return to, by the third time, you can really dig deep and enjoy it!, That's where I am with beautiful Venice. I want to enjoy photographing it and see what I've missed or skimmed (due to oppressive heat during my last visit there)., I was not sure about Rimini, especially since I won't be taking time to lay in the sand :) Thanks for saving me the time, though it does look like a pleasant stroll along the beach., Is it wise to stay 1 night in Ravenna? The churches/mosaics, Modern Art museum, it's own beach, bus to San A/C, and also the salt flats with flamingos could be interesting, combined it seems to be a lot for one day plus the train travel., FYI: Faenza has a world-class international ceramics museum and many artisan shops. I included it in a trip a few years back but did not research well enough to know the museum was open on that Sunday but not the shops., I saw you can rent a Vespa to enjoy the countryside of Bologna. Fun!, Thanks again!!VSQ, If it is only two nights,personally I'd stay in Ravenna for both of them...it is smaller but IMHO more interesting than Bologna.Of course that depends on your interests.But if you like Byzantine churches and mosaics,that is the place for you ;-), I wouldn't bother with a day trip to Rimini.Its a very busy,touristy beach resort..not a terrible place,but if you don't want to spend beach time there is not a lot of innterest there., Attractive as Bolzano would be, I would include somewhere more enroute between your other stops.  It's a fair way to go for what would be effectively only one day.  Even five nights in Bologna would be good because it's a great transport hub and would allow you to visit Ravenna, Ferrara, Faenze, Parma, etc, etc. by train for the day.  Don't forget to leave some time for Bologna itself as well., ''No man ever steps in the same river twice,for it is not the same river,and he is not the same man'', Glad if it's helpful. :-), Yes, I completely understand the thing about photography in Venice. There's just something about the light there. See if you can find time to get to the islands. The trip will give you a great appreciation of the lagoon., If you're desperate for a beach walk, try the Lido in Venice. Not a top recommendation when there's so much to see in the city, but it's on your doorstep if you want., Lucapal offers good advice about Ravenna, I think., Thanks for the info. on Faenza. :-)] [Boy, where to begin..., If you want to go to Bolzano, by all means go. But it seems odd that the very first shout-out to a favorite 2-day stop is precisely the one you were already thinking of. Northern Italy is overly rich in these sorts of destinations, many of which require less of a detour or none at all--Padova, Vicenza, Verona, Mantova, Trieste, Milan, the lakes around Milan, the Tuscan hill town of your choice., Of course, none of these are in the Dolemites. But are there mountain stops besides Bolzano that are closer and equally rewarding?, If the best thing about Bologna is its usefulness as a base to get to other places... that's not exactly high praise. Especially when there are cheap buses and trains between Ravenna and Faenza that take 35-45 minutes. So I would be in the "Ravenna for 2 nights" camp. After maybe checking your luggage at the Bologna train station and strolling the city center for as long as you find it interesting. There's simply not a lot to do there except eat and stroll the city center. Which is lovely. More lovely than Verona, Mantova, Ravenna, etc? Probably depends who you ask., Btw, I don't think you could cram Ravenna and Rimini into one day.(Any informed opinions about Parma/Modena in one day?), I'm a big fan of Ostia Antica, but I think that's simply a day trip from Rome--not a convenient stop on the way to the airport. You can double-check and see if they'll check your luggage for you. But I doubt it., I also wonder what you'd miss in Rome if you prioritize Ostia Antica., You mentioned Val d'Orcia but that area south of Siena is not easy to reach without a car. There are buses but it would need careful planning. If you were prepared to hire a car you could easily spend 2 or 3 days heading south in the area between Bologna and Rome.Just an alternative day trip from Bologna is the Porrettana railway which is the original line south from Bologna built in - I think - the 1840s and regarded as a feat of engineering. It ends in Pistoia but calls at several mountain top villages and small towns en route across the western end of the Appenines. Worth a Google if you're interested., Bolzano is a bit of a curious recommendation. It's nice enough, but out of the way (geographically speaking) from the other places already on this itinerary, and I do question whether it's interesting enough to justify all the travelling time., Bologna is fine for a day, but it always strikes me as a place that's more famous than it deserves to be. :-), Not to do the mosaics justice, certainly. It seems that VSQ has found other things to do in Ravenna, too. So more reason to stay in Ravenna and consider a day trip to Bologna, if it's still on the agenda., I can only go by my own experience. Yes, it's perfectly doable. (I started from Bologna.) Modena yown centre is very small and doesn't have lots to see - you could do it in a morning. Then off to Parma for the afternoon and evening? It would take some research as to exactly what one wanted to see in each place. There are some speciality museums in the area, I think., Yes, it would be easy to reach the airport from here, but I don't read it that this is where VSQ is planning to stay either. "Near FCO" would not normally include Ostia Antica for most travellers, I don't think., I am not sure Bolzano in April is that great duue to what weather you are likely to have, whilst the city is interesting it is also the fact it has two gondolas going up to local mountains., This is a rather peculiar comment - none of these are in the Dolomites (Bolzano is)., Bolzano for three nights can be beautiful - obviously that is why I suggested it. But I was also a little surprised that the OP grabbed at that suggestion so quickly - mind you, as a fellow Aussie, he must trust my excellent judgement!, The obvious nice alternatives to Bolzano are Florence - Siena - Tuscany - down to Orvieto ... there is very little not to like, and it would be hard to go wrong with any of those options. Depends on what the OP has already seen, as well., What is this point?  It's a simple train-trip via Verona, and then from Bolzano back down to Bologna can also be an easy train trip - and as I suggested, a four-hour break in Verona is really well rewarded.  Seeing the Dolomites for a couple of days can also be richly rewarding., Some people on here are very puzzling indeed ... I sometimes wonder what their real agenda is., I don't see any hidden agendas.If OP wants to see the Dolomites, yes, he will have to go out of his way.And ignore a lot of interesting places that aren't in the Dolomites, but are directly <em>on</em> the way., You yourself expressed surprise that you had hit OP's nail on the head.I think we're just double-checking that that is indeed the case., Ah, I wondered if we could add Verona to the other suggestions. Verona is another place that requires time being spent on it. There's well over a day's worth of sightseeing there. It's one of the most rewarding cityscapes in northern Italy, which may mean in Western Europe. I don't suggest that VSQ tries to cram too much in, but with a few spare days in the itinerary at this stage it's an obvious place to consider. No mountains, of course, but much closer to Venice and much more to offer than Bolzano. Better weather in April, too., Is 1h20m a long way out of anyone's way?  In Australia we go at least that far for a pizza., I agree that the OP probably needs to make a judgement call between the Dolomites and Tuscany stuff - depending on their priority interests., But the train-trip up from Verona to Bolzano is trivial in the scheme of things - not a deciding factor on what they could do. I also think Florence and Siena is a very good alternative, if not previously experienced., Sorry, meant to say: c_f_c is right, no agenda. :-) Just questioning the logic of passing through Verona to get to Bolzano instead of stopping in Verona. But it is up to VSQ.] [They can see both cities if they follow my suggestion - four hours in Verona is very nice, and then three nights in Bolzano is very nice. What could go wrong with such a plan?, Too many options,no point arguing about it ;-), The OP could quite easily avoid heading up to Alto Adige or across to Tuscany,and just stay in Emilia or Veneto...or not,as they prefer., Then there is Umbria,the Marche...all kind of on the way to Rome!, Oh, you mean 1h20min from <em>Verona!</em>Which OP has not yet expressed interest in visiting., As opposed to a minimum of about 3 hrs from Venice.Which OP <em>has</em> expressed interest in visiting., Well, I wouldn't recommend doing that in Italy. (Sorry to hear good pizzerias are so few and far between.), Thanks Coalclifff., I was thinking about staying at FCO the night before leaving for the convenience no matter what the day before includes., It seemed to make even more sense if I do go to Ostia Antica, which was on the possibilities list for my previous trip to Rome (rather than Pompeii). I did neither :) There are no shortage of options in captivating Italy!!, VSQ, VSQ, Hi Lucapal., I'm beginning to question my using Bologna as an extended home base with so much in Ravenna. Though it is nice to stay-put rather than hotel-hopping. I'll have to think this trough more as my plans become clearer..., Thanks for the insight on Rimini. It's off this year's wish list., I appreciate your suggestions. It really helps having been there and done that when planning such a trip., This is a wonderful group!, Hi!, If you decide on the base for more days,Bologna makes more sense...its a better base,for more places., If it's only the two nights though...Ravenna has plenty to fill your time.It can also be considerably cheaper to stay in than Bologna., Thanks Helen., There are so many options for a fulfilling trip. My wish list of Italian towns is very long and has included the Dolomites for years but it is a bit out of this trip's general direction. I'm impressed with the trains and know it's just a do-able journey., Have to sort out a home base approach or adding more hotels to the schedule. There are benefits to both.It's helpful to think this through with such experienced Italy travelers., I appreciate your thoughts!, VSQ, Hello Clementis fur cap., As in a recent reply, I have wanted to visit the mountains in northern Italy for a while but have not managed to fit it in. The suggestion was a pleasant surprise that I could possibly fit it into the plan :), Verona seems like a sweet day trip and likewise has been on the wish list for years. (Where in Italy is not? Though honestly, Naples holds no big draw to me at this point.Not sure why, especially with their big museums.  I'd be happy to be pleasantly surprised to be proved wrong.), I have enjoyed Milan 2x (loved Milano!), a few towns on Lake Como 2x, Florence, San Gimignano 3x, and Siena. I could easily enjoy them again but feel it is time to explore a new area. Thus I'm looking at the Bologna/Ravenna area. The mosaics are a must this year., Rome offers endless opportunities! Last year I took a day trip to Tivoli and enjoyed the escape from the maddening crowds by the end of that three-week journey :) I look forward to wandering without scheduled tours every day. I feel like I missed so much but enjoyed ALL I saw and did there., Though I travel light - carry on only - I don't want to be burdened with it all day. That is no fun at all., I enjoy your thoughts and suggestion. Thanks for sharing them with me!, VSQ, I will look into this for sure! What an interesting adventure., Thanks Mike9, VSQ, Coalcliff...yes, I do trust your (and this group's) always excellent judgment ;), VSQ] [Frankly, I think the problem is in fact the richness of the beauty of Italy...I could easily live there for a while and enjoy it all...but for the details like $$, My wish list is long. Too much beauty, art, history, food, and wonderful people to easily narrow it down to a trip a year., Thanks!VSQ, I basically have 5 to 6 days between Venice (4 nites) and Rome (4 nites). The in and out is set but the number of nites are not., The world is my oyster for that time!, Defintes: Ravenna's mosaics, FaenzaPossibles: Verona, mountains, Bologna, plus+++++, Besides the art, history, food, and beauty of a place...photography is a passion of mine., I rented a car with a European friend who understood the meanings of the traffic signs (the symbols). I'm glad I was not the driver or parker! Driving would open up much but think the trains will do for this trip. I am considering a Vespa to the outskirts of Bologna for a half day., Bologna station seems to be a good hub with many direct trains. Of course, more research is needed., Thanks!VSQ, Depends a lot on your interests,but for me Naples would be in my top 3 cities in Italy...and for food,probably top 2 ;-), But there are many,many possibilities...it's a country that is extremely rich in interesting cities (and not only).And Naples is of course off your route..., We've liked Naples a couple of times for a stroll-through ... but given the riches north of Rome, I wouldn't consider it for this trip. Either the Dolomites or some Tuscany can easily satisfy the soul ... difficult to go wrong with either., Coalcliff...I booked a small group to up to the Dolomites from Venice and thank you for the suggestion. It has been on the wish-list and I'm thinking this day trip just might be the highlight of the trip. Fingers crossed for good weather :), Thanks for triggering the idea!VSQ, Sounds excellent ... pray to your weather gods!] [My husband and I are planning to spend a few days on the Tremiti Islands in early June. We don't drive, and will be relying entirely on public transportation to get there from Locorotondo. Can we get from Locorotondo to the Tremiti Islands in one day of travel? It will likely take a bit of maneuvering to synch all the bus, train, and ferry schedules., Should we go from Locorotondo to Foggia via a bus ride that's a little over 3 hours? Then on to Termoli by bus (1 hr), then ferry to Tremiti? Or would it be easier to take a bus to Bari (1.5 hrs), then a train to Termoli (a little under 2 hrs), then a ferry to Tremiti?, From Foggia, we'd love to take the helicopter to Tremiti, but there are weight limits on baggage at 10kg each. Unfortunately, as we're traveling through southern Italy for 6 weeks, our bags will likely weigh closer to 20kg each. We're happy to pay extra for overweight baggage, but I'd imagine with a helicopter there's only so much extra weight it can carry., We're also planning to spend some time on Vieste, but it seems that Tremiti is easier to reach from Locorotondo that Vieste, so we figure we'll head to Vieste after a few days on Tremiti. Does this make sense?, Any help would be appreciated!, According to http://www.ferroviedelgargano.com/en-gb/Home/s/orari, You may also travel via Monopoli:Locrotondo dp by bus 8.05 - Monopoli ar 8.50, dp by train 9.27 - Foggia ar 11.07, dp by bus 11.30 - Vieste ar 15.10, Thanks for the transport links and schedule! We'd actually considered spending some time in Monopoli. Perhaps we should stop there for a few days after Locorotondo before heading to the islands., For that matter, we were also thinking Molfetta looks appealing, and it could be an alternate place to break up the long journey., Termoli too is a nice place to stay (small medieval city center, trabucchi, sandy beach)., Given that you are staying in one part of the country at one time of year, it should be quite manageable to get your luggage weight down to 10kgs.  We travel with &lt;10 kg for 8 w each year across a variety of climates always having plenty of clothes and without being hard core about it.  This would allow you to take that helicopter ride and honestly you will appreciate it every time you lift your bag, especially as people using public transport.  Get a smaller lighter bag and see how doable it is.] [Does buying an electric motorcycle in Rome need registration, insurance and mechanic yearly fee?, This branch not intended for travel questions about specific countries. You should post this question on Western Europe Branch / Italy, Hi @saadawad9719971251, I've moved your topic to the Western Europe: Italy branch., Do you mean an electric motorbike or an electric bike. If you mean an electric motorbike then yes no different than a petrol motorbike., I think the only difference for the electric motorbike is that you don't have to pay the tax (bollo)for the first 5 years..its an eco incentive., You still need to register and pay insurance.] [We are travelling to Europe this June, and will have 7-9 days to hang out somewhere in Italy before we spend 4 days in Rome. We will have a 4.5 month old baby with us, and while we are very experienced travelers, this is our first trip with a baby and everything will be new to us. The number one piece of advice we have received is not try to do to much, so we have determined it will be great to just set up camp in a nice quaint Italian beach town, get a nice Airbnb with a terrace, and immerse ourselves in the local culture for 7-9 days. Ideally this town has a great "core" with restaurants, cafes, bakeries, etc. and be close to the ocean so that we can have an Airbnb where we can sit on the terrace overlooking the sea while baby naps, as well as take the baby out the front door in the stroller/bassinet/carrier for walks around town when appropriate or to dinner if baby falls asleep or be able to run out and grab food if baby is being bad, etc.. Having a beach would be ideal so we could even take turns headed down there fore a few hours. We have done a lot of research and come up with the following options, along with some of our thoughts behind each. We have never been to these areas, so any insight you have would be greatly appreciated, and if we are missing a town you think we should consider, please let us know. We do not plan on having a rental car, and therefore plan on sticking to the town we choose. If baby and parents are up to it, maybe we do a short day trip on a bus or something, but that is very low on the priority list. Our budget for an Airbnb is up to 500 Euro a night, but most of what we see are much lower than that, which is fine., To summarize our priority list, we would like a small quaint beach town that has a good core area with restaurants/cafes that is reasonably walk able, is close to the ocean so we can have Airbnb terrace with views, and has a decent beach so one parent can spend some time down there while other is with baby,, Options:Mondello - We like that it is close to Palermo for transit, not sure it has that quaint beach town feel, but seems nice and walkable.Ponza - We like the island feel, haven't seen many great Airbnb's, and not sure if the town is big enough to not get royally boredLa Madellena - again, nice small island feel, seems walkablePraiano/Atrani - We love these options for the amazing Airbnb's available with stunning views (wine and cheese on terrace while baby sleeps!), but it seems like there are just SO many stairs in these towns that it would impossible to head out with babyCefalu - Near the top of our list, great Airbnb's available, nice beach, seems very walkablePolignano a Mare - Again, near top of our list, looks like a big enough town to not get bored, reasonably walkable, nice airbnbs availableSperlonga - We like the proximity to Rome, seems very walkable, not sure it has the "quaint italian beach town" feel, Thanks so much for your insight., You have done your research well!, I have been to them all,except for La Maddalena., I would discard the Amalfi Coast in general,if you don't want to be constantly carrying the baby up and down.Apart from those places,the others are all decent possibilities., My local ones are Mondello and Cefalu.Cefalu is more interesting as a place and has more to see and do.Mondello is a lot smaller.Both have reasonable access to Palermo,Mondello is a lot nearer of course (30 mins bus ride).Cefalu easily accessible from Palermo by train.Both have good beaches by Sicilian mainland standards (ie,pretty good but not the best in Italy,never mind the best in the world ;-)., I would probably go with Cefalu looking at the things you list above.I like Polignano too., I love Polignano great town with plenty of bars and restaurants, and a nice short bus ride to Monopoli which is also a great town. But your Sicily choices are good too. Personally I prefer Puglia to Sicily but both are great. Yep avoid Amalfi and Sperlonga is OK but I think you have worked out not so quaint. La Maddalena does look interesting but getting there will be a bit of a journey, plus not sure how much will be going on there as it is still slightly off season for Italians., Sperlonga is sort of above the beach, if you want flat, though not  old and quaint, consider Terracina, a very family oriented beach enclave....nice beaches too...and maybe a few nights in Caserta area and the palace there...cool old MidEvil town...., And Gaeta. I'm not sure it meets the definition of "quaint," but I don't really like that term and don't even know exactly what it means. At any rate, it's a lively beach town, pretty, flat, and has plenty of interesting commerce., Thank you everyone for your comments and insight.  I tried to do some research before I posted as I think that garners better discussions and opinions, which it appears to have done.   It sounds like I didn't miss anywhere in Italy that jumps out to you as a place that fits my description perfectly, and Polignano and Cefalu were also at the top of our list, so we may make our choice based on where we can find the better Airbnb., Something I am not very aware of, and hopefully you and help me out with, is I am wondering if there is a major difference between culture and food in Polignany vs. Cefalu?, Thanks!, In both places you will get italian food and some regional, personally and i am not saying it is better, Puglian food is my preferred of the two. But both have great food, and some exciting street food places. In going against what i have just said Palermo is one of the great Italian food cities. In Poilignano there is quite famous cafe where they do  series of fast snack and sandwiches all based around seafood it is superb simply called Pescaria, but there are lots of great places to eat., There is something of a difference of course,but as above you will also get 'standard' Italain food (fish,pizza,pasta etc)in both places.They get a lot of tourists,and many of them are not familiar with the regional variations,so many places will offer more 'familiar' items, Of the regional food I'd say Sicilian food is considerably better than Pugliese,but I'm biased ;-), #7 I think we can agree to differ on that one., Yes,sure!, I don't say that the food is bad in Puglia.Its hard to think of any place in Italy where you can't find good food,if you know what (and where) to look for...] [Yes i agree and i did not say Sicilian food was bad either, it is difficult to find bad food anywhere in Italy and it is normally easy to spot bad places. But i do love both Puglian food and wine and perhaps because tourism was quite late there (for the international market) they have kep't it more authentic than some regions that and the fact that the cucina povera movement is so big there., Thanks all! It really sounds like we can't go wrong with either choice, so we are likely going to base the decision on where we can find a better Airbnb that suits our first vacation with our first baby (as if we can predict how that will go haha), which will be an adventure, to say the least., ok,good luck!, Don’t focus too much on Airbnb, look at other resources as well anywhere you will end up going., Just a quick sec for a Reality Check:, Respondents and canuck: are you sure this is a possibility in the destinations you're proposing?(If not an Airbnb, <em>some</em> form of short-term rental with a sea view terrace?), To me, it sounds a little too much like an Italian equivalent of the lovely, deserted beaches in the Corona Beer commercials. Which is to say, not overly realistic.But I'm happy to be persuaded otherwise..., Hi  there, thanks for your concern.  We have found plenty that fit the bill., examples: https://www.airbnb.ca/rooms/22855627?wl_source=list&amp;wl_id=720023505&amp;role=wishlist_owner&amp;adults=1&amp;children=0&amp;infants=0, Alrighty then!, I think you still have to be careful and ask yourself questions like, "Why was this photo taken from this angle?" And, "If the selling point is the stupendous view, why are there more photos of the bedroom than of the view?', We were just in Polignano in September and both of those places look good. The first one is, I think, just south of the old part of town and a few blocks walk from the beach. Polignano is a bustling place with plenty to see and do, with a cute little beach (don't imagine long stretches of white sand - more like a little pocket in the middle of the city). We loved it for what it was but I don't think I'd want more than 3 nights there, to be honest. Food is excellent - lots of seafood and good wine. There is plenty of shopping and I remember a couple of playgrounds for kids., Oh hahah. Just re-read your original post. a 4-1/2 month old does NOT need a playground. But maybe you do!, Sounds like a good idea and the kind of break we like even sans baby (and sans beach) just to soak up a locale and feel (a little) like a local.  For my two cents worth, while I love both Sicily and Puglia (and the food in both), Cefalu was my least liked, and most foreign touristed stop in a month in Sicily.  Everywhere else was a lot more pleasant and if you don't need swathes of sand, then Ortigia and Trapani are great options too.  We stayed in each of those in an apartment overlooking the water and had a loveAly 6 n stay in each.] [Hello. We are planning to go to Napels with 2 kids (3.5 and 4.5 years old) in March. My kids are really interested in vulcano's. So we will definately go to the Vesuvius and to Pompeij. I am looking for some learning activities (not typical touristic). Maybe visit a school or ngo project? Any ideas? And any must-do's in Napels with kids?  TIA Claudia, I'm sure there are plenty of children's books about volcanos in general and Pompeii/Vesuvius in particular., Be wary when considering free online resources, results of a search like "Vesuvius kids exercises." One webpage of "Vesuvius facts and worksheets"  begins, "Located on the west coast of Italy, Mount Vesuvius is the only active volcano in Europe.", Folks who live near Mt. Etna or Stromboli would disagree. And that's just Italy., An actual book, even a children's book, will have gone through an editorial process, including fact-checking., Naples is pretty big, which area? Have you considered Caserta?, Check out Naples Underground., And close to that, Via San Gregorio Armeno is interesting for kids of all ages!, You also might like Pozzuoli about half an hour on the local train. It is "quaint" fishing village but might be of interest to the juniors for something a bit different. Both there and Pompei are a bit weather-dependant, I wouldn't go to either if blowing a gale or pouring with rain - in fact I wonder whether juniors would actually enjoy Pompei given how much was destroyed. It's not high on the "gosh just look at that" list and you perhaps need a good imagination to try and visualise what actually was there a couple of thousand years ago. There are more remains on site at Ercolano., Has the Solfatara site reopened?, I don't think they have re-opened unfortunately, otherwise that might have been a worthwhile visit. I think other part of the Campa Flegrei are open to the public though it is several years since I last visited, Thank you for your comments!]